Mr Marinos, we are not adopting a purely economic approach to managing the Portuguese Presidency, and therefore, the cultural dimension is, I am sure you will appreciate, one of our main concerns.
I would like to say however that it is, and has always been, a very modest budget and therefore the funding for this programme is more symbolic than real.
In addition, I should like to make a number of comments:
In order to be realistic, I further support postponing the date for the application of these conditions until three months after the directive itself comes into force.
Firstly, we needed to take action on a formal level in order to meet the requirements of Directive 96/35/EC, which obliges the Member States to appoint safety advisers and to organise the training, instruction and examination of these people but does not explain this explicitly.
Aiming instead at harmonised minimum standards will easily lead to a situation where we leap over the lowest hurdle and end up with the lowest common denominator, which will water down all the aims of competition policy.
You must therefore fight against the tendency of all institutions to try and increase their powers.
I urge the Commission not to keep having to be asked and to provide assistance for the victims of the storms.
I believe it will have very positive and noticeable effects on the environment.
These should indeed be excluded from the directive. Secondly, the controversial question as to who bears the responsibility for taking back cars.
Neither can we tolerate a situation in which a public body holds the copyright to public documents.
If the Commission can indeed restore confidence in the food production chain it will simultaneously restore confidence in the European Union institutions themselves and demonstrate their ability to protect the rights of EU citizens.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it is willing to avoid any unjustified bureaucratic overload, but we cannot give up the practice of checking the relevance and quality of the proposed programmes, indeed you would be the first to criticise us if we did.
It is an excellent report.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as I do not have a background as a Member of the European Parliament, you will understand that it is even more moving for me to be here than it is for my colleague Fernando Gomes.
The ÖVP played no small part in helping Austria find its way into the European Union.
Finally, and this follows on from what I have just said, we would like the Commission to inform the Committee on Budgets on a very regular basis, monthly, regarding progress on payments made.
The precautionary principle is not a new concept.
It would be preferable if national governments channelled this money directly to their local governments without a European detour.
This report is essentially a primitive text with no inspiration other than the law of the jungle, for it is not competition that can solve the problems facing humanity at this turn of the century.
One thing we should stop and think about is the fact that there is a very uncertain market for recycled plastic bumpers of cars.
I have witnessed from close up within the Development Committee how thousands of projects stagnate and how sometimes up to 80% of the money is not spent. Sometimes, an enormous reservoir of money is created, not because it is not desperately needed, not because there are no sound proposals, but because the whole system has collapsed.
We are going to work seriously to ensure that the Europeans come to see being European as an advantage and that European citizens have certain fundamental rights which are connected to the Union' s institutions.
I will have to repeat these arguments, modestly, in this intervention, because the same issue has arisen once again.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your statement.
Let me explain: it is true that the Israeli Government has delayed the third hand-over of West Bank territory to the Palestinian authorities.
It has been suggested that the most important tasks of a future food authority will be to gather, publish and coordinate data, make recommendations for improved food safety, and - as you said - collect scientific data and popularise that information for consumers.
In these circumstances, even the best resolutions will remain little more than appeals to principle which are powerless to limit the great corporations' capacity to cause damage.
Most of Parliament' s amendments have been taken into account and the fact that the programme has seen its total funding rise to EUR 77 million must be seen as positive.
This included a number of interim conditions valid until 1 January 1999.
It is a perfectly legitimate declaration of intent from the Commission, insofar as it concerns its own programmes and not those of Member States.
You did not call me either.
We deplore, therefore, what is happening in Austria.
We should recognise, however, that the democratic process sometimes produces uncomfortable results.
The functionalist approach has brought us to this point.
I shall also mention the German Socialist Party which dares to preach to us about the second world war, when it is international socialist in the way that its peers were National Socialists, still goose-stepping, the party of the Waffen SS...
Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this Parliament agrees with the report that Mr Berend has just presented and congratulates the author, both on the quality of his conclusions and on his flexibility, which ensured that the different groups were able to incorporate amendments in committee.
Have we achieved results?
Concerning the most remote regions, it was only quite belatedly that we received the memorandums from the various governments, but this is not necessarily an excuse, just an explanation.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
In this context, I should like to make a request and ask the Commissioner responsible, who is with us here today, to table an appropriate text as soon as possible with a view to continuing to make it safer for traffic to transit tunnels in the future, so that we in Europe do not have to experience any more such disasters on this scale.
A flexible EU which concentrates on fewer but important areas and which respects national differences and national democracy has a better chance of embracing a significantly greater number of countries.
It has thereby succeeded in closing two serious loopholes in the internal market which are of great significance to the European economy and to 5 million third-country nationals in the European Union who are here as workers or on a self-employed basis.
We have dealt with other subjects and we have mentioned our idea that other subjects may be dealt with in this conference, if the Portuguese Presidency firstly, and then the French Presidency, so wish, in view of the serious nature of the present juncture prior to enlargement.
Mr President, I welcome the EQUAL initiative and the report which highlights the need to distinguish between actions to combat discrimination against women and actions to combat discrimination against minority groups.
(Applause)
Two things, and Mrs Theato' s report clearly spells these out.
A scoreboard tells people the score; it has to be up-to-date and it has to be clear and visible.
We have been trying to reach a happy compromise between one interest - that of public order - and the other, that of finding the easiest possible solution.
That is the job of the European Strategy for Employment and the Social Fund, which have huge sums of money and exceptionally large resources at their disposal, especially for countries like Greece.
This is an important development which must be supported as it is the future of the EU which is at stake.
The question of consistent application: the risk of inconsistent application of competition rules must be borne in mind, but I do not believe that it should be exaggerated.
I shall simply stress my own personal complaint because, in the end, we did not manage to adopt a review clause.
Mr President, the Commission' s resignation has also created a culture of fear amongst many officials within the hierarchy and large bureaucracy.
It is a Community that is destined to exist, in which, when the main thing is under threat, when values are under threat, all democrats must bend over backwards to find solutions to ensure that the mistakes of the past are never made again.
The Council therefore expressed its satisfaction, in its December conclusions, at the substantial contributions announced by the European Commission, which will indirectly assist in returning the situation to normal, together with similar contributions made by Member States.
However, there were obviously problems with the practical administration of the steel aid code over the past few years that were not brought fully to bear in the report.
Mr President, I would like to extend a warm thank you to the rapporteur for his report.
The most important issue with regard to this is internal differentiation within the Union.
How could you completely ignore a common - I repeat; common - policy with such an economic, social and regional impact, and which therefore affects the economic and social cohesion of Europe?
The peoples which do not participate and gradually grow more distant will leave the way open for an oligarchy that will take power and leave control in the hands of a few.
I have heard many comments on the Commission' s opinion, which mentioned all these subjects and dealt with many of them in depth, with specific indications of new draft articles, but no one has said that we were going beyond the Helsinki mandate.
My third point has also been mentioned already.
Cross-border services
Well, the Syrians are quite possibly cutting off their nose to spite their face.
Here too we should continue along the path we have chosen, strengthening and intensifying it.
In this context of wholesale change, and in order to prevent our nation States vanishing again, in the wake of globalisation which is creating hitherto unprecedented scales and challenges, Europe needs to be economically strong, because globalisation demands unity, because every day we hear news of new agreements at world level and news of changes at European level too.
I would like your advice about Rule 143 concerning inadmissibility.
Incidentally, the French will probably be interested to learn that the Commission is asking for Article 67 of the Amsterdam Treaty to be amended in order to establish majority voting and codecision with the European Parliament.
Finally, following on from what was agreed in Tampere, the report restates the need for a European Public Prosecutor. This issue has been brought once again to the fore by Commissioner Vitorino' s timely decision to ask the IGC to include in its agenda the creation of this new role, which everyone considers vital.
This is also the case with the consolidation and financing of the main public and general interest services.
I therefore give the floor immediately to Mr Bourlanges, in his capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
Furthermore, they have taken on the task of creating a "scoreboard" to verify the progress made in this area at Community level, but also - and this seems to me to be important - at the level of the Member States.
I should like to address one final point. We must not content ourselves with sealing another hole in the safety net and shutting our eyes to the fact that, where transport safety in Europe is concerned, there is still much more to be done.
The second principle is based on the fact that nowadays many of the job opportunities in rural areas are outside the traditional agricultural sector, so that a complete development programme which integrates rural development policies with agricultural sector policies needs to be implemented. In this way rural development is becoming a pillar of the CAP.
I personally believe that the scope of the directive goes beyond its objective.
The idea of a single criminal code and the European Public Prosecutor is something which Member States have a right to be informed about.
We are seeking views by the end of April on what we envisage.
Madam President, I should simply like to ask Mr Wurtz to take a second look at what this is about.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt asked me about establishing a positive list.
The manufacturers have tricked Mr Florenz and Mr Lange into tabling amendments here which seriously weaken these proposals.
I should also like to give my considered support to the comments of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, particularly and primarily in deploring the failure to integrate the most remote regions into strand A of the programme or in commenting upon the lack of precision in the selection criteria for the implementation methods for strand III C and, finally, in requesting that Members of the European Parliament should be involved in the European Observatory for cross-border, transregional and interregional cooperation.
This week we heard the first political cry of the new-born Europe.
I regret that the manufacturers have harangued the European Parliament and the Council with a whole ream of arguments which either cut no ice or were simply false.
I am thinking specifically of Total-Fina in the present instance.
This again would require measures to regulate the exportation and importation of capital; otherwise it would not be possible to focus on policies in this way.
This is a pity, in a sense.
Mr Chirac has described those who engage in this as the Aids virus of the world economy.
I can see from your reaction that many of the Members of Parliament have not received the Minutes and clearly you cannot approve Minutes which you have not seen.
In this respect I would also add another element, which is economic government, given the single currency, and I believe this is inescapable. This is another question on which the Commission must make progress.
The use of depleted uranium weapons was one of the many issues considered and this report is now widely available also on the Net.
In conclusion, this morning, the day after St Valentine's Day, the newspapers are saying that your honeymoon period is over.
Even if the majority in this House were to adhere to this ultraliberal idea of a supposedly perfect market, it would not make any difference to the real world.
At the moment, there are no concrete proposals which would allow us to make adjustments under this Article, and unless there is such a proposal, we cannot move forward on this matter.
Ultimately, the polluter must pay.
This has also been partly dealt with in the van Hulten report. I think it would be useful if we were to give report figures per category and per sector on how the budget is implemented.
More active participation by these authorities in Community initiatives should be promoted, bearing in mind that in many cases they have a very limited capacity for cooperation because of the different legal frameworks and different levels of development on either side of the border.
If, I repeat, we had had regulations of this type, then this disaster would surely not have occurred.
In addition, there is a special provision of up to EUR 50 million for Greece.
What we need here is good government, Madam President.
The tax would be targeted at the right place: at the speculators.
We cannot agree to this, since such a sidelong shift towards a Europe of the Judges is detrimental to the proper exercise of democracy in our States.
Some of the socialists under the direction of Mr Bernd Lange say: yes, we approve of this principle but we need not implement it until 2010 or 2012 according to Amendment No 45.
The reason Mr Koch produced his sound report was because the work in the CEN and within the United Nations Economic Commission was proceeding none too expeditiously.
I do not expect that the board will have any function in directing the scientists how to do their work.
There are two issues I would like to draw your attention to.
From a desk assessment coupled with a fact-finding mission the report concludes that the risks, if any, are limited to an area around the target.
Firstly, to congratulate and thank Mr Napolitano, the chairman, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the extremely original major initiative which it took yesterday in bringing together the competent representatives of national parliaments, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Commission for an initial joint debate.
In this way, positive development of the regions is also possible, because people will start business and will work if they are given the chance.
The Council therefore reiterates its opinion that fishing pressure would be greater and more damaging to population numbers than the solution which was eventually chosen.
The Commission proposal accords the Commission a central role in establishing guidelines on competition policy.
The debate is closed.
Since January 2000, there have been six shootings by loyalists and two by republicans, loyalists have been involved in six serious assaults, one leading to another murder, while republicans have engaged in five serious assaults.
The new LEADER+ programme now covers all rural areas in the European Union, which will open up greater possibilities for potential projects.
With global markets, we need global employment laws and global subsidies.
This Commission should not have to live forever in the shadow of the mistakes that caused the resignation of the Commission that went before it.
It need only be fine-tuned.
This aid for gathering timber is, of course, only the first stage of an aid package, which will take the form of aid for reforestation and aid for the development of rural areas.
If we succeed in this then perhaps we will be better off in a few years' time!
Too often we have put forward recommendations and they have not been acted upon even though you have said very often that you will act on them.
The Commission finds this worrying only from the point of view of the conditions of competition.
This also means that, in any case, I have a great deal of respect for the briefing note which she sent on 10 January but also for the action points which she announced today.
Second reading of the Florenz report (A5-0006/2000)
May I particularly draw attention to one of the implications of enlargement in respect of this Parliament.
If the price of enlargement is the watering-down or even the break-up of the present Union, then it must not be paid.
We have done a lot in the Balkans: the new European Reconstruction Agency for Kosovo, the Balkans Task Force and new regulations to speed up procedures.
In the field of immigration, borders and asylum, the Commission presented a proposal for a regulation on setting up the Eurodac database, and a proposal for a directive on conditions for admitting third country nationals into Member States of the European Union with a view to reuniting families, as part of a vigorous policy of integrating legal residents in the territory of the European Union.
So, I would like to hear more about how the Commission will guarantee this uniform application in practice and whether you yourself consider the courses outlined from point one hundred onwards in the White Paper to be feasible.
Sustainable urban development - rural development - EQUAL initiative
Mr President, Mrs Schroedter' s report undoubtedly contains several important observations, and I would like to congratulate her on that.
We deplore the fact that the Commission, in its opinion of 26 January, limits itself to following the routine path of a standardised Europe enlarging towards the East, a centralised superstate operating on the basis of majority decisions.
We have had problems in the past in terms of our responsibility in carrying out discharge because we have not had access to the documents we should have had.
The party led by François Mitterrand, decorated with the emblem of Marshal Pétain' s Vichy government, the party whose leading lights have just been caught red-handed once again, living a life of luxury on the public funds embezzled from the students' mutual insurance company.
I also intend to continue discussions on the preparation of specific common procedural rules for simplifying and speeding up cross-border judicial proceedings relating to small commercial and consumer claims, alimony claims and non-contested claims.
Indeed, the comments which have just been made express a proactive attitude and a concern which match his own: the Portuguese Presidency cannot be just an interim presidency.
In addition to financial outlay and reconstruction work, urgent attention must also be given to restoring the coexistence of Serbs, Albanians and other minorities - not forgetting the Roma of course - in this country, so that at some point in the near future, on the road to coexistence, it will hopefully be possible for some form of reconciliation to take place.
I hope that the forthcoming visit by the President of the European Parliament to the region, as well as the presidents of the relevant interparliamentary delegations, will begin an era of greater initiative and a greater presence for the European Union in this complicated and difficult peace process.
Greece has seen an increase in the employment rate and, as far as I can see, an increase in productivity.
Let us take a very simple parameter: turnout at the next European elections.
Quite, we agree absolutely.
Yesterday when I arrived in Parliament I was handed a document relating to a proposed demonstration by the assistants outside the doors of Parliament.
Mr President, I am in favour of tightening up the legislation on port state control and on classification societies.
Allow me to make two fundamental comments at this juncture. As the competent authority, the Commission, with its logically consistent approach, has again and again served the cause of freedom of competition, not always to the delight of the Member States or enterprises concerned.
Indeed, it is in this spirit and in the framework of this mandate, which the Commission framed for its own opinion, but using all the terms thereof, plus everything between the lines.
One last word regarding the programme. I think it very important for renewable energies to be firmly established in the regions so that they can develop in the long term and so that they can contribute to the economy and to job creation there.
Needless to say, this is most definitely an essential point which should not be changed in any way.
So, whatever has been stated in this regard, vintage cars and motorcycles are not included under the directive.
In common with the other Members, I call for Parliament to have codecision rights where competition law is concerned.
I simply wish to remind you that the European Parliament has already sent a letter to the three kings through its reports.
This programme constitutes a driving force for development on the European scale.
What has been done about training?
This uranium becomes air-borne, is inhaled and could now be effectively carried by members of the population in Kosovo with rather more long-term effects than it has been possible to establish so far.
This is why we will vote individually in favour of the specific measures planned to help certain social categories which are most disadvantaged but will abstain on the report itself in order to denounce the fact that in the main it consists of pious hopes financed on the cheap.
It is true that it is a stopgap solution, but we must rely on stopgap solutions because, at the moment - as he himself has pointed out - we cannot expect a broad reform of the system from the Intergovernmental Conference.
Europe is continuing to expel nationals arriving from countries regarded as dangerous by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Yet some applicant countries in central and eastern Europe are taking in gypsy refugees expelled en masse from Belgium.
We have also voted in favour of the resolution in protest against the detestable politics that Jörg Haider stands for.
When the talks between the SPÖ and ÖVP broke down, the Socialists attempted to form a minority government and asked the FPÖ for their support.
We must use dialogue at every political level, including of course dialogue with the national parliaments.
We will dedicate approximately one hour and fifteen minutes to Question Time.
It must be shown to be a two-way process in which existing EU policies and programmes, which are not clearly justified on the grounds of subsidiarity and proportionality, are devolved and repealed.
They should not be about shifting priorities and policies halfway through project development, resulting in inevitable delays and underspends, particularly in the light of the new budgetary requirement.
Transport of dangerous goods by road
Anyone who feeds on prejudice towards foreigners and ethnic minorities and gives succour to these prejudices, whose programme features parochialism and anti-liberalism, who displays loutish behaviour and arrogance in their international relations, and who has never yet distanced themselves clearly and unequivocally from National Socialism, has neither the intention nor inclination to integrate!
We have still not had a response to crucial questions of this type.
(Applause from the PSE Group)
We might ask ourselves, what kind of scientists will supply this documentation and what do they stand for?
Instead, there is a need for proper internal control and the ability to sack people more easily.
Supporting only the competitiveness of companies will never be able to compensate for the envisaged cohesion between economic and social development, simply because there is no basis for a self-supporting upturn in these Objective 1 Regions.
If there is a democratic deficit at the end of this IGC, then I say that the political groups which so wanted this haste will be accountable for this.
Merit must be recognised and rewarded, specific skills training should be a sine qua non for promotion to a higher grade.
It should have its own heading in the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference, which would mean widening the agenda.
Consequently, the Commission proposal under discussion today is intended to amend the directive in order to provide a short-term solution to these problems, rather than to put an end to the transitional arrangements, as should have been the case!
Just consider the facts: we looked at Austria a while ago, but we can also look at the stock markets, Mr President: given that the euro, that great undertaking, has fallen 16% against the dollar in a year, then perhaps, I will not say a government, but a good head of a family should ask himself whether one can conceivably tell the citizens that the only subjects open to negotiation are the number of Commissioners or similar issues.
The reports are late, and, in addition, they were very hastily discussed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
The Commission made an active contribution to the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration, and ultimately, in December, it presented a proposal aimed at establishing a European refugee fund.
I suggest Mr Evans goes back and reads the regulation.
I therefore feel we must carefully consider the balance of power that we are in danger of upsetting if we put forward this type of reform, which appears to be quite specific.
The second priority, which several of you have stressed, Mr Puerta in particular, but there were others, not that I am mentioning them in any order of priority, is the strengthening of social cohesion and of employment, particularly by raising the profile of human resources far more so than in the past.
Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group, I welcome the fact that we have reached an end result in the conciliation procedure for the ALTENER II Programme.
Nor have you integrated it into economic policy, competition or the internal market.
We could not agree with a proposal like this, which challenged the authority of the European Parliament.
After the talks which took place the day before yesterday between the Israeli Prime Minister and the Leader of the Palestinian Authority, the Israeli Prime Minister requested a delay of two months as from 13 February, the deadline for the implementation of the framework agreement on the situation in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
Have the Council of Fisheries Ministers and the Commission assessed the impact of transferring the Portuguese quota for ICES zones XI and X and CECAF zone 34.1.1 to France (5000 metric tonnes per year overfishing) on the ICES zone VIII anchovy stocks and their responsibility for the current situation of the anchovy stocks and the possible social and economic impact on this fisheries sector in the future?
No more than EUR 2.8 billion is provided for EQUAL, as Mrs Stenzel' s balanced report makes clear.
There is, however, one thing we should not overlook.
Finally, there must be improvements in the training of crews.
A paper such as this is no basis for a scoreboard.
Likewise, the situation with regard to right of entry and residence rights should be clarified before the service provision card is issued, namely under the terms of an opposition procedure.
I should like to stress that the EQUAL initiative satisfies national requirements and national plans defined in accordance with agreed European strategy.
We have recently had cause to talk about the 'polluter pays' principle. We should apply this principle rationally and calmly, correctly targeted and without ideology.
In concrete terms, 3 000 tonnes represent 57.5% of Portugal' s fishing opportunities in 2000 against 5 008 tonnes or 73.9% in 1999.
I would compare the situation with an earlier generation' s introduction of the Plimsoll line, a marking which was introduced to prevent insurance fraud involving inferior vessels.
At this stage it is more important to concentrate on assessing how we can use this process to steer Union regional policy, bearing in mind that the aim is to reduce regional inequality.
We could have voted on the 17th of this month and the Conference would not have been able to start on the 14th.
We have established a new Directorate-General, yet it has only 70 people all told.
These people live in areas which should benefit from these projects.
Here we have a Council which has managed to flout the treaty and employ a method completely unrelated to Articles 6 and 7 which make it possible to condemn a State in the event of a serious and persistent breach.
These policy objectives can only be achieved through their careful coordination and organisation on the basis of well thought-out and sensible guidelines.
Was it in fact necessary in this message to specifically offer his best wishes for success, or to say, "I am sure that you will demonstrate the same commitment as shown by your predecessors to liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms" , or indeed that he awaited productive and constructive cooperation?
During the few months that I have been a Commissioner that has happened twice, first of all in New York at our meeting with Minister Tang and most recently at the meeting in Peking and we will continue to make that concern manifest.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we upheld unanimously the criterion that it was of strategic importance and a matter of priority to support the interventions of the Structural and Cohesion Funds which are working for a better opportunity for jobs for the unemployed and for equality between men and women.
(SV) We are pleased that a limited agenda has been established for the Intergovernmental Conference at the Helsinki Conference.
These are the same areas, Commissioner, which already have to put up with the disrespectful activities of certain shipowners who empty the bilges of their vessels off their coasts, without any control whatsoever.
Here, a region has, by its own efforts, created a means of marketing its own products.
It provides the opportunity for local communities to identify their development potential and become actively involved in addressing those problems.
My second concern was that some discriminated groups have specific problems, for example, disabled people' s access to the workplace.
I agree, absolutely. We shall do so.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Berend' s report is precisely in line with the strategy determined by the European Commission inasmuch as the question of increasing competitiveness is brought right to the fore.
Quite briefly, structural policy does not ease the problem of mass unemployment in any way, rather it aggravates it.
These worthwhile amendments are the outcome of this; I think that we will be able to arrive at a solution to the problem, that is, to reconcile environmental requirements with market and labour requirements.
I lodged a written complaint on the same subject to Commissioner Vitorino on 23 December.
As Members of the European Parliament, we must have the courage to explain to our governments and people back home that the Commission' s staff resources are not at all adequate for the tasks which have been assigned to it.
We have tried to drive this proposal through.
Mr Papayannakis, the only answer I can give you is that the Greek Government does indeed need to step up efforts to introduce computerised statistical records and to set up structures so that the programmes implemented have the quantitative results which you mentioned, and so that monitoring can be carried out and used as a basis for formulating policies.
I wish you every success, President of the Council, in making sure that the European Council agrees to this agenda and that on Valentine' s Day when you start off the IGC it will be under good auspices and you will bring it to a good conclusion, also when the French Presidency takes over, by the end of this year.
Firstly, I believe the issue raised by the President of the Socialist Group yesterday about the reinstatement of the debate with the President of the Commission on the five-year strategic programme was sufficiently important for other speakers who wished to comment briefly on that matter to have been accommodated.
However, we cannot used simulators in cases relating to nuclear energy.
... and that includes their representatives in this Parliament.
You have tacked a few components together but you have no overall structure.
That would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the European Union.
.
Mr President, to say that the European Union is at a crossroads is no doubt nothing new. It has been said many times.
You will also find that these cars are suitably disposed of, that new material flows have been opened up in order to recycle materials, that 85% of the weight of a car is recycled and that 92% of all cars in the Netherlands are recycled.
This is an issue which I expect will be discussed between Parliament and the Commission over the next few weeks and months.
My second point concerns the resumption of negotiations between Syria and Israel.
There must also be savings.
For Europe is and will remain the most potent guarantee we have against xenophobia and demagogy, or even against a relapse into barbarism.
The Barak government has given to understand that it intends to conclude a peace agreement with a state as the other party.
Mr President, I almost feel like saying, "Phew" , now that we have at last come to the second reading on this directive which has given us so much work, and which has clearly also given a great deal of work to the rapporteur, Mr Florenz.
The political leaders of Europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another Member State, just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority.
The Commission' s starting point in applying the precautionary principle is the need to ensure a high level of protection in the fields of environmental, human, animal and plant health.
Just a year ago when the Commission produced its proposals around Agenda 2000 it axed the URBAN initiative.
In her report, Mrs Flautre also drew attention to an area where coordination is sorely lacking, yet desperately needed.
The way to a European monopolies commission must be kept clear, something that will certainly form a subject for future discussion.
As intended by the Treaties and the will of the people, the Commission is the driving force of European construction which is like a rock of Sisyphus which we have to push back up to the summit again together after each round of enlargement. We therefore need a strong Commission but one which relies on the support of a parliament.
Although it is difficult for Europe to speak with one voice about the peace process, it can and must speak in the same spirit of confidence and solidarity.
The Court of Justice is to monitor the legality of the legislative acts.
It is not just that we need to speak out in the world with one voice; it is what we want to say with this voice that it is important.
But the Union will only continue to be more than a market and to be accredited by the people of Europe if it sees itself as a community of destinies.
The work of the Conference will determine the structure and method based on which Europe will be functioning in the twentieth century.
In its draft guidelines, the Commission acknowledges that these borders require greater attention than they did in the past.
It is crucially important for this Intergovernmental Conference to score a hat trick; that of the power to act, democratic legitimacy and transparency.
This will either be the century of waste management or it will not.
It can be used on evidence from a minority or where science is incomplete.
Well, patently, if we do open this debate today, Madam President, as you are requesting and as the Conference of Presidents is requesting, on the basis of Rule 50, we shall then be opening up a fearsome breach in the principle of the freedom and sovereignty of the national states and the free constitution of democratically elected governments, enabling some other majority in this Parliament, at some future time, to claim the right to interfere in the formation of a government even though it has assumed power on the basis of free, regular, peaceful and democratic elections within a Member State.
This situation would obviously be even more damaging to the level of stocks than the risk referred to by Mr Ortuondo Larrea, which we also understand.
I hope that it works out.
As far as we are concerned - I am responding to Mr Seguro who expressed concerns about this just now - we have not restricted ourselves to these three subjects, even though I do consider them as priorities, and consider that they must be dealt with now.
Mr President, on behalf of the Italian Radical Members, I abstained on this text in the Committee on Budgetary Control, because I share the concerns that have been voiced, in such an authoritative way, by the representative of another legal culture which is certainly important: common law.
My vote was "in favour" .
As you rightly said, the precautionary principle is needed in precisely those areas where, as yet, there is no scientific evidence.
Response to Second Report of Committee of Independent Experts
Mr President, we have already had this discussion so many times in the past.
That therefore leaves only the amendment proposed under paragraph 3.
This is what we need to do for the Balkans.
We are all very much anticipating this, but the facts are still missing at this time when we already have to decide whether or not to grant discharge.
The Committee believes that projects financed under action 1 should place value on the potential of endogenous development, in particular based on local traditions, techniques and practices, on specific production and on the management of sustainable energy.
Why cannot we just be satisfied with the common position currently tabled? If we are, then all that remains for us to do is to congratulate the Council on the result achieved.
The polluter should pay.
Mr Désir, I note your comment and the existence of this joint motion for a resolution.
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament does not adhere to the health and safety legislation that it actually passes?
That is what Culture 2000 represents.
One urgent question is therefore raised: why, when this programme has been successfully run for ten years, is LEADER+ still classed as experimental?
Nevertheless, we are pleased that this programme has turned out in the way that we wanted it to.
Firstly, I agree on the need to guarantee equal conditions for aid to all Member States and, secondly, on the need for transparency with regard to this aid.
During the course of our work on this report it became clear that there are persistent problems in the spending areas under the control of our budget.
I have great expectations for the Portuguese Presidency.
Social and economic situation and development of the regions of the Union
They are like a snake biting its own tail.
Mr President, the importance of this initiative is increasing constantly as economic and social problems in Europe' s cities intensify and the public feels more and more out of touch with the administration of its city or neighbourhood.
Indeed, the 1999 discharge will not be given until all financial irregularities highlighted by the Court of Auditors have been cleared up.
Having said that, in my opinion, the resolution adopted today is the absolute minimum, the very least we could do.
I believe - and I shall only pick up on a few ideas - that Parliament alone, and no one else, can exert an influence over its Members. If this were not the case, the European Parliament' s authority and representativeness would be seriously undermined in the coming years, and this institution would not move forward, as it should.
Here we must ensure that the good schemes, those which are really excellent, are then somehow transferred into rural development policy to safeguard the future of this laudable work.
Equality must permeate not only projects and programmes but also all overarching goals, action plans and strategies.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Commissioner, it must be made clear that we support UNMIK and the institutions set up by the United Nations, in particular Pillar 4 of course, and it will not do for us to support the parallel structures that have formed in Kosovo and are still in place.
My group's sympathy goes out to the people of Brittany who have seen their area despoiled by this disaster, just as my group's sympathy went out to the people of West Wales and to the Shetland Islands on previous occasions.
I can only urge the Conference of Presidents to reach agreement as quickly as possible on the correct way to proceed in matters of comitology, i.e. the correct way to quote.
It will not be us who refuse these new resources. You should ask the Council.
In other words, a social, ecologically-orientated market, a secure currency, guaranteed civil rights internally and representation of common interests externally.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy would advise you to release the EUR 35 million, and this piece of advice is given because this money can truly benefit those in need.
It is nonetheless worth emphasising that, each time we make this type of decision, it is good from a broad environmental perspective and it is beneficial because it creates better prior conditions for exploiting the possibilities of the internal market.
Madam President, although some of the aims of the Tobin tax are fairly worthy of support, introducing the tax exclusively within the territory of the European Union, as the first area of the world to do so, would sound the death knell for the European currency markets.
However, the resolution of the European Parliament does not question the reasons for the outcome of the Austrian vote and offers no options for resolving the problem.
However, I would like to concentrate on two points.
I do not like the term 'leftovers' any more than Richard Corbett does.
I feel that these parameters - particularly those of a qualitative nature, resulting from investments in continuous training, refresher courses, adaptability and retraining of older workers - are considerably more significant and binding owing to their lasting effects over the medium term than the simple drawing up of annual quantitative objectives, that are always debatable, regarding new employment or employment cuts.
As with all other Community initiatives, this is very positive.
On the market, the balance of power between supply and demand are generally to the detriment of the weakest parties, consumers and workers.
. (DA) The Left' s five Members of the European Parliament have chosen to support LEADER+, the EQUAL initiative and INTERREG, but not URBAN.
I hope that what we have said so clearly and vehemently here today will also be reinforced in the Commission documents.
If need be, the report shall contain a proposal to amend the decision, and this should be achieved by 30 June 2002.
They do not want any more promises that we then fail to keep, or to see any efforts that we then fail to follow through.
Medicines are available in the United States but the United States is not making them cheap enough for the people in Africa.
Tomorrow, the Commission is to decide on the matter for four more countries and very soon, I hope, it will be Italy' s turn.
It is also true, however, that, since the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh agreements, 39% of the territory of the West Bank has been handed over to the Palestinian National Authority, together with two thirds of the Gaza Strip and, more importantly, this agreement has so far been scrupulously complied with, since, under the terms laid down in Sharm el-Sheikh, the Israeli Government has the right to delay that handover.
I hope for their adoption.
A big responsibility rests with the United Nations because they are addressed with this report, so they have to take responsibility.
And, again, I urge you, Madam President, to look at the standard of translation that we are receiving currently.
I naturally hope that the result of today' s vote will be a good one.
Consequently, these proposals do not live up to the issues at stake. They represent a downward spiral which in the long term would require the number of judges to be increased to several hundred.
Also, ethical principles are at the heart of this research but your communication says nothing about these.
I did not hide behind any immunity.
Why would it not work elsewhere?
It will have to initiate these negotiations.
We understand the context of this essential debate.
The citizens demand rapid and open access to the institutions and call for EU provisions to be comprehensible to them.
It sets out over 80 separate actions that are envisaged over the period ahead and intends to close identified loopholes in current legislation.
I have just heard now that an audit progress board is going to be set up by the Commission.
We in Parliament have a major role to play in the shaping of governance in Europe.
I welcome you and your ambition.
In this regard, we are certainly on the right track, but as some Members have already stressed, the real issue here is the possibility that manufacturers' responsibility will become a shared responsibility.
This legal framework is fairly advanced, at least if you compare it with what is happening at worldwide level and the Member States, under the supervision of the Commission, should endeavour to ensure that Community law is actually applied.
However, it seems that none of the Member States meets this figure due to a lack of inspectors.
This concern, ladies and gentlemen, lies at the very heart of our URBAN initiative, and I am willing to rewrite the text, if necessary, in order to make this message clearer yet.
The CEN has been unable to complete its work in the time allotted.
I have also noted, to my great satisfaction, that even the groups advocating greater national sovereignty, or the eurosceptic groups are calling for Europe to regulate, and I think that this is in fact the right level to take action.
We need a directive in this area, and we also therefore want to avoid a complicated conciliation procedure.
Sanctions can be imposed after the Treaties have been violated, but cannot be applied if a democratically elected party enters government.
The management of ABB Alsthom Power, following a merger carried out in June 1999, announced restructuring where there is already the prospect of layoffs in a number of countries.
And to what extent will the European Parliament be able to play a role in this?
It refers to the special Commission working group dealing with questions of equality.
Mr President, there are economic frontiers within the European Union, and the internal market with the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is fully operating at this time.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Langen warmly for his report, which, although geared more towards a specific sector, is a valuable contribution.
A second round of conciliation achieved an increase of EUR 1.1 million in order to reach this compromise figure of 77 million.
Consequently, we cannot support Amendment No 2 of the Greens, as borne out in the committee meeting.
We must improve information on all of the world' s ships, but provision has already been made for this. We must also target those responsible and take a tougher line with them.
The European Commission believes that this initiative to combat discrimination will help to increase the level of employment of people with special needs and, in the end, to promote the freedom of movement of these persons.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
I would like to insist to the Portuguese Presidency that we must play a greater role, that it is time to take over and to secure greater participation for the European Union in this process.
We must be brave and not only see some aspects of globalisation. We must be brave enough to have more of an overview of this process, so that wealth does not only benefit the most highly-developed blocks and countries, but that there is also harmonious change and development in every region in the world.
I welcome the fact that Commissioner Monti wants to make progress in this area in the dialogue with the European Parliament, as he does in the dialogue with non-governmental organisations, consumer protection associations and the public.
The great majority of the paper's proposals are closely akin to those put by Mr van Hulten and that paper includes - I say to him and to Mr Staes - a very explicit timetable of actions to be undertaken in pursuit of reform.
There is certainly a need for European civil protection, and the EU budget must also provide for a budget line covering natural disasters.
Another positive development I would like to remind you of is the fact that the old UCK is now bound up in the reconstruction of the country.
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0006/2000), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council Directive on end-of-life vehicles (8095/1/1999 - C5-0180/1999 - 1997/0194(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr Florenz)
I must say that I find this a very good idea that we will probably take up.
I want to remind Mr Prodi, and his colleagues who are still here, of the findings of the Commission' s own survey among 3000 European businesses.
Madam President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group did not associate itself with the joint PPE/DE-PSE resolution on the political situation in Austria following the formation in that country of a coalition government between the conservatives and Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
A Europe of 27 States or a Europe of 14, or even fewer?
I must respond also to the fact, of course, that there were references during the debate - and I use some of the words employed - to the ambiguity, the complacency and the fragility of the Commission' s opinion.
Europe is making its presence felt at a time when we are doing something for all the citizens of Europe and not simply for the development of an individual State, whichever one it may be.
The decision on this initiative was taken in Berlin, where it was decided to take account of professional groups of asylum seekers and to include them in its action.
The document has been drawn up taking full account of the provisions contained in the draft prepared by the European Ombudsman's office.
Indeed, in terms of development aid policy, I think that Europe has absolutely nothing to worry about for the simple reason that our behaviour in this area compares very favourably with that of the United States.
The accession of Austria to the Community was a joint venture.
Madam President, I want to start by reinforcing the caution that has been expressed by many colleagues here in addressing this five-year plan.
This has worked fairly well, but, as in the famous film Casablanca 'time goes by' and we must adapt the legislation we have been applying until now to the new circumstances.
We are not just talking about human rights and the environment where Tibet is concerned, rather it is about a unique cultural heritage that is also able to communicate important values such as peace, serenity, compassion - as the Dalai Lama would say - to us Europeans.
We are discussing last year' s discharge, but also the Commission' s responsibility.
Although it seems a reasonable scheme, the Tobin tax is not without its problems, even if there should be agreement as to its implementation, which I do not believe there will.
But, on the other hand, the wider view must also be taken, namely that the initial decentralisation which has been begun today may, in the long term, lead to greater freedom to take the requirements of each country into account, and this will be of benefit to everyone.
Over the next seven years, the Commission' s proposals concerning URBAN will entail a reduction in both the Community budget and the number of areas standing to benefit.
But we must avoid lurching back into the old-style regulation, stifling individual initiative and enterprise.
On the other hand, for the sake of simplifying procedures some highly debatable amendments have been included in the Berger report, one example of which is the establishment of a common information service for cards issued by a body in any Member State.
On south-eastern Europe, I agree with your view that we measure political institutions through their achievements.
Mr President, Commissioner, reading the leaflets which have been distributed in recent weeks, one would think that we were talking about the ultimate environmental catastrophe or the death of the car industry in Europe.
Your sabre-rattling fools no one because, as you know perfectly well, whether you like it or not, you need Austria in order to reform the Treaties and harmonise savings tax.
The subject needs to be discussed without prejudice.
But we have also learned this week that Mr Barak will not be travelling to Washington and that the negotiations cannot therefore be continued.
I would like to remind you, however, that there is a special axis for the employment strategy which relates to women and that a special programme is being prepared, the fifth programme for equality between men and women.
This is not the usual state of affairs.
This is the European Union' s declared aim.
That is exactly what it is all about, otherwise we might as well not bother talking about the precautionary principle here, Commissioner!
The Commission recently observed renewed interest in a global tax, such as the Tobin tax, as a means of achieving socially responsible globalisation, so to speak.
Mr President, esteemed gentlemen from Portugal, especially the Council representatives, you face great expectations on our part.
You have shown us the way, Mr Monti, with the single market scoreboard.
There is a large grey area and a great lack of clarity where criminal sanctions are concerned, and it is precisely in this area that the announcements made by the Commission are rather vague.
I would urge Parliament to support them.
Mr President, Commissioner, I want to begin by thanking Mr Rapkay for a good report and constructive cooperation.
Our next challenge will be to prevent the occurrence of phytosanitary problems which could result from having to abandon large amounts of wood in the forest, and from the pollution of ground water through having to store such large quantities of wood.
For the European Union of the future to be able to function more effectively, more democratically and with complete transparency, clearly what we need is an extensive and in-depth reform of the institutions and the way they work.
That way the much-trumpeted need for transparency in the use of these funds and the temptation to draw unnecessarily in the longer term on the local tax base in areas where such projects are located will be diminished and the European Parliament will show how seriously it takes the need for such reform.
It therefore proved necessary, in the context of establishing the internal market, to adopt some measures intended to ensure better risk prevention.
In accordance with the principle of relative stability, 90% of stocks of anchovy in the Bay of Biscay are allocated to Spain and only 10% to France.
Shame on you Mr Bertinotti!
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
At the end of the day, Israeli voters can still express an opinion on the return of the Golan.
There can be no worse situation than that of an elderly person living in a city.
For example, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler spoke in English about 'long-term capital for long-term projects' - this is an obvious issue.
Several of you mentioned points which must be included in the second report on cohesion, and your rapporteur mentioned some of these.
I shall not even mention the instances of corruption in the Italian Socialist Party, because it does not do to kick a man when he is down, still less when he is dead and gone.
50 is exactly the level of development of my own region, the Azores, one of the regions defined in the Treaties as ultra-peripheral.
I refer to item 11 on the order of business.
Subject: Construction of nuclear plant in earthquake-prone Turkey The two recent earthquakes in Turkey registering more than 7 on the Richter scale raise tremendous doubts about Turkey's persistence with the construction of costly nuclear reactors at Akkuyu, while energy reserves produced by the Atatürk dams are exported to third countries and the EU spends a slice of its budget on repairing the damage wrought by the earthquakes.
We are therefore unable to approve the development of strand IIIC of the Community initiative encouraging interregional cooperation under the responsibility of the Commission and sidelining the Member States.
Finally, let me repeat, we shall have a very great effort to make in order to popularise the topics of these negotiations.
Firms involved in the transport of dangerous goods and in the loading and unloading operations related to such transportation have been obliged, quite rightly, to comply with regulations regarding risk prevention, whether road, rail or inland waterway transport is involved.
In the first place, this new five-year programme will entail extending the actions in the ALTENER I programme. This will include extending the exchange of information and expertise between operators in the renewable energy sources sector, developing local and regional energy agencies, and establishing new networks for approving financial support, to name but a few examples.
In order to finance the stability plan for the Balkans, we will have to negotiate a significant revision of Category 4, and you must remember the enormous difficulties we have had in approving the 2000 budget.
As the report itself indicates, the funds allocated to the URBAN II programme for the 2000-2006 period are approximately 30% less than those in the previous period, which were already low, at EUR 900 million. Added to this is the fact that only about fifty projects are considered for the whole of Europe which is pathetic when practically all European city districts, both suburban and inner city, are affected.
Between the agro-food sector and the farming sector there are over 10 million employees.
The Parliament services asked to meet with the assistants yesterday to make the necessary physical arrangements.
In addition - and this has also been mentioned already, for example by Mr Gasòliba I Böhm, but also by others - there is a need for more supervision.
I have three short questions, the first being as follows.
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE
The main objective of the Union' s competition policy cannot be to reduce the overall level of aid.
The fact is there are too few women involved in research work in the European Union.
Well, we in Britain are looking to the European Court at the moment.
INTERREG appropriations may be used to make our regions into veritable European Union bridgeheads into these geographical areas, giving it worldwide scope.
Question No 42 by (H-0817/99):
We are also doing a number of other things: in the European Union-China human rights dialogue, we have focused on a number of practical steps, including sending experts on assignment to Tibet, planning development assistance programmes and activities focusing on health, education and training for Tibetans.
Maybe he was referring to the Treaty of Amsterdam, Article 6 of which lists certain principles and Article 7 certain procedures, in order to establish that a Member State is seriously and continuously violating the principles referred to in Article 6.
And so it is the "two key" principle that applies here.
It happened to sink there, and Brittany, where I come from, should not apologise for the fact that geography has made it a peninsula, and the result is that it is often forced to clear up after shipwrecks.
Unfortunately, there has been no change in the way that the Council always talks about culture but fails to allocate any money for it.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
The first is asylum.
The second point relates to Syria.
This would, furthermore, make it possible to allow firms time to make funds available to meet these additional expenses.
This FPÖ has now entered into a coalition with the ÖVP, due to the outcome of elections held on 3 October 1999, when the previous government was voted out of office.
You said that the precautionary principle should not be used as a disguised trade barrier.
Perhaps it might be time for us to begin to consider establishing a common environmental authority which could deal with this type of crime.
Only then will it be possible for the desired multiplier effect to be achieved.
Needless to say, safety on roads, railways and inland waterways is of key importance and, given the international nature of these types of transport, training for safety advisors should also be harmonised, therefore, as well as the requirements of the new ADR, for example, which is under way.
I hope that, in the future, things will change and meetings will become frequent, because there are many issues which require the attention of the Commission in order to speed up and conclude, as quickly as possible, those measures which will promote greater equality between men and women.
In fact, the beneficiaries of too many and too high subsidies will eventually just take these for granted.
In addition, there are Community directives, but they are seldom applied, if at all, due to the insufficient number of national inspectors.
The governments which, through spinelessness or ideology, support you are also responsible.
Now it is freedom, security and justice, and I hope that the current governments of the left will heed the words of Commissioner Vitorino and resist the temptation to elevate security, important as it is, above the equally important needs of freedom and justice.
After having heard Prime Minister Guterres, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and yourself, I have confidence in the ambition of the Portuguese Presidency and the extremely proactive way in which it will conduct these negotiations.
The Europol agreement has now officially entered into force.
Those who oppose taxation on currency dealing are in favour of those tax-recycling centres, the tax havens, of which there are 62 in all.
Mr Rübig, as I said, I understand your concerns very well.
- (FR) I am pleased to see the excellent report on the communication from the Commission entitled 'Women and Science' .
This is not just about bureaucratic reform, however; rather, it is about showing good will towards the citizens.
I very much welcome the position taken by the Italian Radicals; and I say this while making a clear historic and material distinction between Italian liberals and Austrian liberals.
I am, however, optimistic.
Let me remind you that the Erika was sailing under a flag of convenience, that of a state applying for membership of the European Union.
I am thinking in particular of the contents of chapter 2.1 of this report, where the Commission examined in greater detail the economic definitions of regional competitiveness and attempted to analyse the extent to which this competitiveness may be supported, improved and influenced by factors which some of you - Mr Markov, just now, and Mrs Raschhofer - stressed very forcefully.
We have done everything to help liberalise financial transactions, but so far we have had no working set of rules, as we have learned from the bitter lessons of the repercussions of the Asian and Latin American crises.
A couple of weeks ago we had a debate in Parliament on the nuclear safety issue with special regard to the candidate countries.
There has therefore been enough time for the Commission to prepare its programme and for us to become familiar with it and explain it to our citizens.
It is good that spending has become focused, as otherwise the buckshot gets scattered to the four winds.
The European Union bears a large measure of responsibility - and along with it the two dominant political movements, the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats - because, by their dogmatic adherence to the harsh financial policies of EMU, their dislocation of the welfare state and their deification of uncontrolled competition, they have pushed broad strata of society to the limits and made it possible for right-wing extremists of the Haider type to recruit support for their neo-Nazi ways.
The question is whether it is premature or not to start a new initiative on the subject of transparency.
We hope these will be carried because they are important in the way that they will impact on future reform.
Madam President, I do not have a great deal to add on this subject.
Second Part
The last question concerns the amount granted.
This is a hugely important component of the system of checks and balances to ensure that Member States and operators are complying with Community legislation.
I am duty- bound to say to this House, there is no ambiguity or fragility or complacency in the opinion offered, or indeed the action taken, by the Commission on this issue.
The challenge of a common foreign security and defence policy is very political.
It is unfortunate that there has been no serious consideration thus far here in Parliament of the issue of internal differentiation within the Union, which will, however, be necessary if the Union is to enlarge as planned.
The Euro, employment, even security, are not enough.
My investigations also unfortunately suggest that this could be the case.
Please respect us as Members of Parliament who want to take our work seriously, and that includes the Tobin tax!
The Commission is correct in stating that the Union intends to develop and safeguard the welfare state in an age of globalisation.
I believe I am one of the few members of this Parliament to have stood beside a production line and assembled cars.
We also wish to see these publicised on the Internet, so that there may be maximum transparency with regard to this specific point.
They would then determine their own prices.
The political fight over funding and programme structuring is out of all proportion to the volume of support.
Any failure to produce these certificates must lead to the ship being laid up and prohibited from leaving the port, regardless of all the port charges.
The reform does not entail any reduction in the Commission' s activities, but requires them to focus on the most important dossiers.
Is it an unprofitable industry which we are discussing and which we really have to help by not imposing more taxes upon it?
We look to him as the man to root out cartels.
We will be happy to incorporate Mr Patten' s notes into the bibliography, as another bedside book for the Members to bear in mind.
If car manufacturers need to bear the cost of recycling their cars, they will design these cars in such a way that they can be re-used more easily and more cheaply.
The question is if we will undertake enlargement whether we are prepared or not.
These results will be most important in shaping the Commission' s social programme.
The report also accepts that some flexibility may be adopted, and grants States the option of adopting or applying alternative standards.
There again, it is simply not possible to change situations once and for all with a few strokes of the pen, and the problems begin as soon as we have to start talking about implementation and getting down to brass tacks.
We Socialists reject the liberals' naïve optimism on this point.
We therefore wonder whether the Commission has the political will to resolve them.
I am absolutely convinced that it will be easier for us to achieve consensus in the Council on this basis.
In the system we propose reforming our substantive rules in such a way that most SMEs will be covered by block exemption regulations, as in the field of vertical restraints.
For that reason, the uninterrupted flow of assets in massive volumes between the world' s financial centres is not merely speculative activity, which has nothing to do with the real economy.
Madam President, since these matters are currently being considered by the Quaestors, may I ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the Register of Interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and, above all, to ensure that the Register is not only available for inspection by this House, but is also published on the Internet?
To give such a role to an authority at this stage would be, in my view, a retrograde step and represent a dilution of democratic accountability.
The Commission and Member States also have to be encouraged to support projects which can help develop understanding and partnership between the different nations in the region.
Indeed, this is my reason for paying a personal visit the day after tomorrow to two of the French departments which have been severely disabled by the storms.
Perhaps with more dialogue and explanation we can overcome some of that.
Mr President, I am in the happy position of being able to refer to a couple of striking contributions from a small group of Nordic sceptics and opponents of the drastic and growing integration process which, looked long and hard at, threatens the whole of democratic Europe.
That did not happen.
The key problem areas at the moment include the difficulties of redeployment, as well as the transfer of territories.
Perhaps this is a very unromantic thing to say on such a morning.
Nonetheless, there are many maritime areas between which links are already established.
I and my colleague Dominique Souchet, who is well versed in this matter, have tabled five amendments highlighting the role of SMEs and craft trades within the framework of INTERREG, the importance of cooperation between undertakings and the need to involve economic and social partners in the design and implementation of the programmes and I welcome the fact that these amendments were adopted unanimously.
Consequently, for end-of-life vehicles we propose setting up a fund to cover the costs of recycling end-of-life vehicles in order to safeguard the principle of freedom from costs.
In the coming months, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the Commission will therefore be working in close cooperation, on good terms, with your two representatives, Professor Tsatsos and Mr Elmar Brok, in order to reconcile our points of view, if need be.
You can think what you like about Mr Haider, and I personally consider him to be a very dangerous politician, but you cannot just intervene in an independent and friendly country' s democratic process.
(The Minutes were approved)
In other words, will each proposal contain an additional sheet stating that checks have been made as to the application of the precautionary principle and the following conclusion has been reached?
As far as possible, we want to see this sort of training automatically built into programmes at the outset, instead of having to be tackled separately and later.
In this respect too, I would ask the Commission to be particularly attentive about ensuring that there is real cohesion between the various policies, specifically in the INTERREG programmes which are being submitted.
Who is imposing their will on the nations of Europe, daring to stop them choosing their own fate?
Wrongly applied competition policy may cause losses in the legal sphere and interfere with the right of ownership, which is an important and basic principle we should stand up for.
Our parliamentary Group will table an amendment in this respect and we expect a positive message from you.
We want to arrive at a solution where certain hurdles are created vis-à-vis the business world, but once these have been overcome, implementation is as easy as it possibly could be.
In cases such as this, where there is uncertainty, simulators are used.
Personally, however, I shall continue to fight against the extreme right, to urge people to sign a petition to demand measures which may go as far as the exclusion of Austria, and to organise a major public demonstration in Lille on Saturday at 3 p.m.
This seems to be the pattern of events that has emerged after the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Gulf war.
But the question is now: is the European Union doing anything about it as well?
If these do not materialise, then, unfortunately, convergence and cohesion will remain no more than words for us, and it is to be feared that the structural policy undertaken in our regions, despite the size of the amounts committed, will end in failure.
My first thoughts are for the 26 Indian sailors, who were saved but of whom nothing has been said.
There are approximately thirteen million third-country subjects who reside within European territory.
However, the reform of the European Commission must now be taken in the context of the debate that is going to take place in the run-up to the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and the reform of various EU policies and initiatives.
I agree with the rapporteur that unfortunately the Commission document contains too little in the way of recommendations to the Member States on simplifying administration, and I support the calls for negotiations to concentrate on promoting a favourable climate for labour-intensive, small and medium-sized enterprises, on setting clear objectives for alternative sources of financing including provisions for risk capital and private financing, and on start-up help for companies including new information technologies and investment in innovative fields.
It is not correct that the Tobin tax is technically impracticable - it is quite feasible in the age of the computer.
In this, their second report, the experts tell us that Italy is financed by the Cohesion Fund, that the ERDF and the Social Fund represent two-thirds of the Structural Funds and that the principles of additionality and complementarity in the Structural Funds come to the same thing. They tell us that the farming lobby is forcing us to finance rural development through the EAGGF-Guarantee and that the principle of partnership only applies to the Commission and to the Member States.
A compromise has now also been reached on the issue of asylum seekers.
We must take account of smaller cycles and plant stable mixed woodland when undertaking reforestation, rather than monocultures.
Can I begin by stating for the record and for the enlightenment of Mrs Langenhagen that the decision for me not to address the full plenary tomorrow and therefore be available for formal responses on the report is not mine and not the Commission's - it was the decision of this Parliament!
For our part, we shall be attempting to strengthen and consolidate the European position on cultural goods and services and on activities in this sphere, because we believe that this is an identifying feature which is crucial to the Union' s image and to the Union' s own particular identity.
In other words we need to go further than what has been referred to as the important "Amsterdam leftovers" .
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
It groups them together and that is very important.
It is not our intention to start a punitive legislative campaign here today, but to continue on our present course, advocating sustainable development.
Framework conditions are indispensable when it comes to preventing abuses, monopolies law being one example.
In the White Paper, you state that the Commission will still issue particular orders which can be used as guidelines, but what will your criteria be for granting such orders one day but not the next?
We are very anxious indeed that the EU, too, should move in this direction, and this is also stated in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Yet as things stand, only the first four Member States have ratified the agreement concluded in 1995.
It has one purpose only and that is precisely to maintain active networking between the individual LEADER groups.
This is what has come of rushing headlong into enlargement and not clearly defining roles and tasks.
Mr President, everyone who has travelled here by car, train or aeroplane, has been able to see the extent of the damage, particularly in France, caused by hurricanes of a completely unprecedented violence which struck Europe at the end of last month.
After all, it is only 1% of GDP, by comparison with national spending.
It is important in this field to implement measures relating to the mutual recognition of judicial decisions, and we believe that on the basis of work already done, it will be possible, at least in the field of seizure of assets, for measures to be adopted in the near future to provide for mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
In its resolution referring to specific atrocities committed against Serbs and Romanies, Parliament also vigorously condemns the continuing violence against the Serb population and calls on the leaders of the Kosovo Albanians to fully respect UN Resolution 1244.
I dare say this because I took the trouble to go into the field and collect information from, among others, scrapyards which already recycle car components successfully.
It is high time that we reached an agreement.
All institutions must now join forces in order to work together towards building this type of Europe.
Secondly, we wish to see an exact progress report on the invitations to tender and the schedule for their implementation.
Mrs Berger, in your Amendment No 2 to Recital 6, you mention legal security.
The Commission as a whole, its President perhaps, the Council?
That is why I think that this is quite positive from Portugal' s point of view.
Mr President, I am also going to refer to the report by Mr Langen, which concerns aid to the steel industry.
The training of staff moving to the delegations in the different regions is another entry point.
However, an exception should certainly be made in the case of Shell and BP, for they have changed policy and do not just base their sales on fossil fuels which are damaging to the climate, rather they also invest in forms of energy that have future viability.
Yes, a lot of things were lost by the Socialists but they have not been won in plenary yet, and may I warn him that may not be the case tomorrow.
Firstly, let me make a statement of fact: the fruits of growth are not distributed equitably within the Union.
The call to make a cultural U-turn and embrace a culture of responsibility seems to me a very fundamental one.
What point is there in issuing restrictive directives if, once they are at sea, most vessels do just what they wish?
I do not consider this directive to be at all satisfactory since it does not answer the real question over what is going to be done with vehicles which have already been abandoned and which, today, can only be removed at local authority expense, i.e. the taxpayers' expense.
The European consumer organisation, which has asked us to support the common position on this point, is to my mind letting the consumer down.
I think it is generally agreed here this afternoon across all groups that the Helsinki agenda will not be sufficient to cover the necessary reform to prepare Europe for enlargement.
I consider this to be the wrong way forward for several reasons.
This brings me onto the point that in future we are going to have to concern ourselves much more intensively with this issue in general terms, that is to say, not just with this specific project but with overall developments in south-east Europe, and with the aid delivered there.
In my opinion, this is an issue which belongs to the debate on the enlargement of the European Union and perhaps not to the present debate.
I would ask you to support that part of the available budget should be concentrated on the development of knowledge amongst European young farmers.
It is imperative that national governments lend their full support to improving energy efficiency and developing renewables.
Certainly those who fear for their livelihood are at a complete loss.
We did not have it so bad in Ireland this time although we have had many serious wind storms on the Atlantic.
This issue, which has an impact on their everyday life, is a key issue as regards EU credibility.
The second involves serious managerial shortcomings in the Commission, in particular in relation to coordination across departments and management of external contracts.
Dovetailing the activities under the Community initiative with the European employment initiatives is an essential requirement and a crucial prerequisite for attaining the objectives of the EQUAL programme.
We already have, on the international side, plans in place to combat drug trafficking, money laundering and so on.
Madam President, today in the second reading we have voted on the amendments to the Directive on end-of-life vehicles.
It is especially important to get SMEs involved in the planning and implementation of programmes.
The success of the Austrian Freedom Party owes as much to the endorsement of respectability provided by the Austrian right wing and social democrats as to the policy of the latter, whose social disasters paved the way for extreme right-wing populism.
My group, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, noted with satisfaction that the Council Presidency is far from happy with the current state of affairs.
I cannot think of a better way to do it.
The European Commission' s belief that, in all quarters of the Union, legislation will, almost as a matter of course, be interpreted in the same way, is what, within catholic circles, we term "foolhardy," and this is not allowed.
I know that the Commission is thinking seriously about how to achieve this, but if the European Union is doing the most work out there, then it should also be given the leadership, and bring coherence to the situation, so that we can be of real assistance to the people.
Thank you, Commissioner.
In this light, the events we are seeing in Austria must be seen as tragic.
- (FR) It is with great satisfaction that I welcome this report on improved harmonisation in the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods.
Secondly, Regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation.
A point to consider regarding the new rules concerns the economy of the outermost regions and islands, all of which must be protected.
We also aim to include training in these issues in the basic training that our officials receive in project cycle management.
At the beginning it is sometimes a little like chasing a rainbow if we say that a plan is too idealistic.
Before concluding, I should like to tell Mr Savary that we are going to have a special debate tomorrow on the consequences of the storms which have struck France, Austria and Germany, in particular, in the last few weeks, and at the same time we shall once again be discussing, together with my fellow Commissioner, Mrs de Palacio, what lessons we might draw in the matter of the oil spillage which has also affected the coasts of France.
It is therefore a positive step that the movement of workers within the European Union is being made easier, even when they are nationals of third countries.
It also means that our Parliament President and the two representatives should be able to take part on an equal political footing and, therefore, not only within the working party, but also at the same political level as the Commission.
This is why it is important to prevent waste materials.
The answer cannot lie in the number of investigations but rather in guaranteeing the rigour with which the controls are undertaken.
Why do I think we need the directive so much?
It is not, however, possible to talk about this without at the same time talking about monetary union.
First, I believe that we can welcome the agreement between Israel and the Palestinian authorities.
The Commission deemed the practical administration relating to the monitoring of the monopolies' ban to be unsatisfactory, something I would wholeheartedly agree with.
Put more strongly, in the long term it is possible that for large numbers of funds, the Tobin tax will be evaded by shifting foreign exchange rate transactions to off-shore tax havens.
All too often we find ourselves calling for this after a disaster has occurred.
The forthcoming enlargement of the Union is used as an argument for this.
It was very small.
I must also stress that once again the Commission is, in fact, skirting the issue of practical action on equal opportunities.
We can save it from year to year and ensure that when something major happens we have an instrument to deal with it.
But it is precisely here that we find the real rationale behind the mantra concerning security, freedom and justice.
The Commission will fulfil the remit given to it at Tampere to present proposals for approving definitions, criminal charges and common sanctions in the field of trafficking in human beings, economic exploitation of immigrants, and sexual exploitation of woman and children, with special emphasis on combating the use of new means of communication, notably the Internet, for distributing child pornography.
Mr President, competition is at the heart of the European internal market policy and is also its driving force.
Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PSE Group in favour of this proposal?
There are plenty of areas for serious discussion.
Turkey's nuclear plans B which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region B prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey's political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons, as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan.
It will certainly be necessary to develop an instrument for this in the anticipated legislative procedure that will enable enterprises to enjoy legal certainty and to have recourse to the Commission in this matter.
I should like to remind the Member that the European Union has agreed to the new regional aid guidelines for the period 2000 plus. This was merely an extension of the policy objectives to complete the internal market within Europe.
I am therefore very pleased that the disciplinary procedure is to be reformed.
Quite the opposite, in an enlarged Europe, Mr President, the standardisation imposed by the improper use of majority decisions can lead only to the whole thing exploding.
There does not seem to be any emphasis on the fight against AIDS in the programme.
Today, we are already discussing the Austrian coalition government' s policy on refugees because Mrs Stenzel, who is the author of the EQUAL report, of course represents Austria' s governing conservative party and its policy.
It is vital that the IGC prepares the way to accept the installation of a fundamental rights regime within the Treaty.
I do not know whether you are a romantic or not, Mr Prodi.
Our central aim must be to give the Union a weight in global affairs commensurate with its weight in terms of aid, trade and finance.
In some cases, I get the impression that it is not about solidarity or alleviating the most desperate problems, but about propaganda and upholding vested interests in exchange for the European Union' s blessing.
This could prevent local governments that are functioning in a short-sighted or insufficiently democratic way from neglecting their duty of input from the very start.
There is an agreement to double this number, but I understand that, so far, not a single new person has arrived.
The rich areas were those where there were jobs in industry, but today those areas might have become a burden, and they may well be poor, meaning we also have to invest in new sectors of industry such as electronic production, as I might call it, and the production of services, because they are the industries of the future.
Please rise, then, for this minute' s silence.
Secondly, Madam President, we wish to send a very clear message to the Austrian people.
My colleagues, Mrs Frassoni and Mr Onesta have already spoken, somewhat sceptically, about some aspects of the matter in hand.
I have rejected the entire directive, not least because Amendment No 34 to Article 12 and the amendments to Article 5/4 have not received an adequate majority here in the House.
We need stronger banking supervision.
My last question relates to something people constantly approach me about and is therefore addressed to the Commission. Will the directive prejudice the accession negotiations?
I think that your proposal, Madam President, to keep the debate and the vote separate, with the debate on Friday and the vote at a later date, is a reasonable one.
In my opinion, Mr President, this joint debate fully bears this out.
Secondly, because it can promote recycling, which is important.
We were able to put a stop to the mass expulsion campaign carried out by the Serbs but almost every day insupportable things happen: people are killed, people are prevented from living there or are prevented from living their lives as they see fit.
On ratifying the Amsterdam Treaty, all Member States stated that they wanted to accord combating fraud against the financial interests of the European Union the same priority as combating fraud to their own detriment.
I therefore appeal formally to the Council and the Commission.
If it chooses the second approach, it must be aware that this presents risks and that it will weaken the basis on which the area of freedom, security and justice is built.
Lastly then, Europol, which started its work in 1999. The Council approved a set of instruments, with which Parliament is familiar, to make Europol' s operations viable but, of course, the fundamental issues of democratic control and judicial control of Europol still remain, and these are issues which have naturally taken on a new dimension in view of the political decision taken in Tampere to reinforce Europol' s powers and, above all, to give it an operational dimension.
I would like to make it clear that it is not just a question of finance or aid to the different social operators, but rather also of selecting those projects which are aimed at employment, or to put it another way, projects which will tend to favour the creation and promotion of jobs.
In this respect, I accept this proposal to amend Directive 94/55/EC which has been tabled for discussion today.
We know that waste from cars exists and we know how we ought to be dealing with it, and there is no excuse for not taking action.
The issue of the threat to the traditional legal system in Ireland and the UK needs to be addressed.
Mr President, firstly I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to my colleague, Mr van Hulten.
Indeed, it is quite in keeping with the positions this House has always adopted.
This is undeniable, even if you - or indeed we - consider that some of the results of these efforts, for reasons beyond Mr Kouchner' s control, have not been as effective as we would all have liked them to be.
As far as Amendment No 15 on the definition of the term "self-employed" is concerned, the Commission will, as I have already remarked, provide an adequate solution to accommodate the objections lodged.
It is important that business has legal certainty.
We sincerely believe in the validity of cultural action, among other things in terms of making a contribution to the social, as well as economic, development of a people.
They have to look at, for example, the concerns of people in relation to a special issue, and they have to judge from what is known about the scientific evidence in a certain case.
It worked for us.
Indeed the report does not mention the time limit for this quota to be achieved.
No.
I believe that the fact that Culture and, fittingly, Education and Youth now fall within the same Commissioner' s remit, will also serve to guarantee more synergy between these three programmes, which are certainly worthwhile programmes for the citizens of the European Union.
It is interesting for me, as a new Member of Parliament, to see that the budget provides for hundreds of millions of euros annually for tobacco cultivation.
Basically, these proposals introduce the EU service provision card which will in future enable almost 5 million third country nationals legally resident in a European Union Member State to provide services in other Member States, a phenomenon currently obstructed by problems such as the need to obtain visas and work permits.
I know that this is an extremely delicate issue, but we should all be questioning the logic behind this resolution and its chances of being implemented.
"We do not have the wherewithal for that," they said.
We are concerned to hear news that the Commission is taking this objective less seriously.
In conclusion, while other countries in the Middle East have had reservations about the overall direction of the peace process, now that the Syrian Government has been brought into the peace process, Egypt and other countries in the region are willing to move forward.
Berger Report (A5-0007/2000) and Berger Report (A5-0012/2000)
Mr President, there is agreement that we must give some thought as to how we in Europe will properly deal with end-of-life cars, although in this instance the Council has not provided a model for a suitable European environment policy.
In the majority of EU countries, there are now governments dominated by social democrats.
Is this simply a political gesture?
But there is also funding which is being pumped via Brussels back to the same rich Member States.
The same applies to the Commission and I would again like to thank Commissioner Barnier for his collaboration with the European Parliament and for the very constructive proposals he put before us.
This is precisely the area where it is even more important than it is in monopolies and mergers law for decisions to be comprehensible.
There is also the desire to create a legal entitlement to confidentiality and to lock away documents of a kind which are at present publicly available in a range of Member States.
It further aims to ensure that nuclear installations are equipped with continuing protection against potential radiological risks, so as to protect individuals, society at large and the environment against the harmful effects of the ionising radiation that can be emitted by such installations.
The feeling of being at the mercy of others, of lacking in influence and of having no protection from the state leads in the best case scenario to a lack of interest in politics and a refusal to vote, as in the European elections and, in the worst case scenario, to extremist voting patterns.
Without deregulation we will not make any headway with a reasonable transport policy.
We will only be able to say that the structural policy of the Union has been a success when we manage to create a sufficient number of jobs and when there is a significant reduction in the unemployment rate.
There is a question about the legislative base on which we have taken the best advice and I think we are soundly placed on that.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have brought you a small gift. Here is a cake of oil sent by someone living on the French island of Noirmoutier who wrote to me as follows: "With every tide, the beach is covered with heavy fuel oil which has leaked out of the Erika.
It is important to remember that.
Most importantly, we need to restore a European economy in which performance pays and people can work as entrepreneurs.
We all took part in it, not just one group.
We want people to understand and learn to appreciate differences.
This omission must be remedied as a matter of urgency.
That is the reason why, while accepting its spirit, we would ask that Amendment No 1 be worded differently - and we have sent a note to Mr Brok in this respect - so that it does not imply conditionality in the provision of Community resources.
I now come to the EQUAL initiative, which is, of course, based on Article 13.
The European Commission' s report is a blunt demonstration of the fact that the Union institutions have no interest in anything except the major capitalist corporations who are engaged in this economic warfare and have no interest in the victims this causes.
In so doing, it will have proved its usefulness to public opinion which, in this instance, is awaiting clear, tangible action.
I would nonetheless like, as others have done, to touch upon the procedure, which is unclear and, above all, unwanted.
This lack of infrastructure is also an obstacle to the establishment of companies and the creation of jobs.
The challenge of enlargement is political.
This is why I propose splitting the costs between the first holder and the manufacturer.
It is essential that this long overdue step be taken.
I shall immediately give the floor to Mr Seixas da Costa, President-in-Office of the Council.
Projects should also specifically address this problem.
If we have the merest suspicion that you are failing to safeguard the law of the European Union, and at present we have no cause for complaint - on the contrary we acknowledge that this is not the case -, but if European law is infringed then we shall fight any such infringement uncompromisingly, precisely because peace in the European Union is founded on this law.
We must be aware of this connection; I do not support those who make sweeping statements to the effect that the greenhouse effect is to blame for this storm, but one thing we can be relatively certain of is that we have reason to fear further catastrophes if we do not soon alter our course!
The common response has been that this tax could not be applied solely at national level and that the right platform for tackling this is the European Union. This is the reason for the oral question to the Council and Commission which we have tabled with 37 other Members.
We therefore take the uncompromising view that we must maintain a resolute and consistent stability pact.
We really hope and believe so.
It is therefore important that the manufacturer' s liability should be clear. This should not in any way be jeopardised.
The core aspects of this debate this evening relate to the operation of the EU initiative programmes, namely, the new INTERREG III initiative, EQUAL and the LEADER+ scheme.
For our part, we are prepared to study any proposals made in this area.
There would have to be an interaction at scientific level.
That is why again, in my report, I have asked that action under the URBAN Programme should not merely provide a single solution to a single problem: these areas do not have single, "mono" problems.
My Padanian electorate who, thanks to Mr Prodi, have already paid what in Italy is known as the European tax - repaid only in part - have absolutely no intention, thanks once again to Mr Prodi, of paying another tax for someone else.
At the same time, we think it is obvious that those who commit crimes against the EU must be able to be held accountable in an effective way.
We clearly expect a political stance to be taken with a very firm deadline of the preparations for the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund. We therefore demand, if this motion is adopted tomorrow, that the Commission and Council appear before Parliament to tell us what positions they will take on this occasion.
That said, the differing approach adopted in the guidelines, which are not geared to geographical objectives, but rather to policy areas, can be considered as positive.
The initiative adopts a completely new approach, which is to develop innovative employment models within transnational geographical or sectoral development partnerships.
A communication later this year will give full details.
You talk about decentralisation but practise centralisation.
I will return to this process of consultation in a few moments.
The means of doing that are set out in the reform strategy and the Commission will present its proposals for a radical recasting of the Financial Regulation in April.
However, this does not blind us to the fact that the majority of resources - 50-80% - will be reserved for cross-border cooperation, for INTERREG IIIA. Therefore, we still think the decision to consolidate the current areas of cooperation in this strand, regarding the selection of eligible regions, is wrong and contradictory.
Uniformity needs to be worked on.
Commissioner, you will be aware from your presence in the last Commission why the crisis occurred.
Mr van Hulten, I think you deserve a medal for your efforts.
Whose responsibility is it when you are dealing with a body that crosses so many frontiers?
In addition, measures must be taken to combat differences on the grounds of gender.
- My party opposed this measure and the proposed amendments.
Next, as a matter of urgency, we muss pass legislation, firstly, regarding identification of the exact characteristics of goods transported.
I believe that this proposal relies on very long deadlines.
I want special-purpose vehicles such as ambulances to have high recovery quotas.
Secondly, there is currently a democratically elected government in Chile, led by Ricardo Núñez, whose first declaration was that all those who have committed this type of crime must face justice, and I would remind you that the Chilean justice system, which is independent, is currently examining 60 complaints lodged against General Pinochet, concerning his crimes against humanity.
Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radical Members.
This is not covered by the directive.
These are matters which we ourselves shall no longer be able to decide upon as voters and no longer be able to change on election day.
They are free to choose only between your brave new world and denouncement.
Regulations on nationality and the integration of people from third countries are still outstanding.
To that end, we must also make it our business to take more account of demand-orientated economic policy as opposed to one focusing heavily on supply.
In addition, I note that Parliament shares the Commission' s view that the preferred form for implementing LEADER+ is the use of global grants.
Nevertheless, we must look at this resolution, and this is also something that the United Nations Security Council will probably have to do sooner or later. We will have to do so because, as has happened in the past in other contexts and in other strategically important situations across the world, we must be in a position to assess a certain kind of process, and a certain kind of logic and balance - which were in fact the logic and the balance which led to this resolution being approved - should be maintained in future.
The German approach is no guarantee that this radical movement will not grow again.
Parliament and the Commission can together increase their efforts to achieve an effective competition policy and so create new opportunities and new resources for our citizens.
At the end of six months I hope that the music is still playing and that the European people are still listening.
It is already strange within the convention that is drafting the charter to see representatives of some Member States, especially Britain and France, seeking to argue that a mandatory charter would somehow be an infringement of national sovereignty.
While this represented significant progress at the time, the lack of specific terms governing the harmonisation of examination requirements proved to be a problem.
Madam President, Mr Bolkestein, the ignorance surrounding this debate is unbelievable.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, and I would personally like to welcome him and the Portuguese Presidency.
Unfortunately, it is necessary to point out again that we do not have equality.
Mr President, I want to refer to the Commission proposals on the budget line to promote the CAP.
Each and every one of us knows that any other region of Europe could meet with just such a fate tomorrow.
This particularly applies in areas within the EU where distances are great and where a lot of small companies are involved in dismantling vehicles.
The Commission can adopt 10 amendments in their entirety.
We consider it to be indispensable and urgently needed and hope that it actually comes up with the goods that will enable us to carry out enlargement of the European Union in the not too distant future.
Your Parliament, may I suggest, Madame President, should wait to see if the party of Haider has an effect on the policies of that country.
In this context we are also proposing to strengthen significantly the control function carried out by the food and veterinary office located in Dublin.
Mr President, I wanted to point out an important matter of principle.
With a figure for trade in goods and services of FRF 36 000 billion only being equal to the product of four days' speculation, the financial bubble owes very little to the productive activity of individuals.
This is another example of the fact that the European Union is prepared to help and to give money but the political leadership lacks coherence.
(The President cut the speaker off)
May I add that, on behalf of the Commission, I listened with great interest to the pleas which have been made just now and that I have a great deal of sympathy for the unease which underlies these pleas.
However, if your response was to be that we should turn to "Mr CFSP" , that is, to Mr Solana, then I fear that this would constitute a one-sided approach to an external policy matter.
Well, today, the same Minister of European Affairs who drew up the Treaty of Amsterdam, who has, in the meantime, become a European Commissioner, Mr Barnier, proposes to decide, at the forthcoming IGC, that the Council will operate in these areas by majority decision.
Neither can we fix what the age for a vintage car should be as there are very great differences from one country' s statutes to another' s.
I would particularly like to draw your attention to Amendment No 5 at this point, which clearly emphasises that it is only possible, and permissible, to use the funds from the special financial aid to finance those Kosovan budgetary requirements arising from public or semi-public, communal and other authorities and institutions, which are controlled either directly or indirectly by UNMIK.
Mr Désir too has mentioned this growing interest on all sides.
For some time now, these abuses have meant that Parliament has been called upon to initiate measures that should serve to protect the European taxpayer' s money, which, when all is said and done, is what sustains the Union' s budget.
I would point out that the European Union is composed of a large number of industrialised countries and, like Mr Désir and several other speakers, I feel that the European Union which we are forming can take the initiative in this respect.
There are already some ex ante controls laid down in article 4 of the directive.
You are looking to reassure the acceding countries, as well as European opinion.
This is exactly what happened in the case of transport of such goods by rail, except for the fact that a time limit had been decided.
I fully support the statements made by Commissioner Prodi in today's session.
It must therefore have a system of courts to enforce that law.
Yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000.
Mr President, we all want to do something about combating European fraud.
Should its implementation not be more strictly monitored?
The second question concerns the reversed burden of proof.
The relevant standards which have been laid down in another Directive, 95/35/EC, seem sufficiently adequate to advise people in a responsible manner on the organisation of the transport of dangerous goods.
I thank him and I wish him a long and distinguished career as a representative.
I would just like to point again to the impact on the forestry industry throughout Europe.
Instead, communities in urban areas should be encouraged to present integrated action plans to tackle their specific urban problems, using EU resources as a value added to local actions.
Calling under these circumstances, as he does in paragraph 20, for the budget for this strand to be increased is another example of the irresponsible and ideological outbidding tactics which are customary in this House.
Too much of what takes place within this Parliament is not transparent.
Our group has therefore tabled a raft of amendments which, when taken together, form a real alternative resolution.
As regards the precautionary principle, I might add that the Commission is currently finalising a communication which I expect to be adopted very soon.
First of all, the Sharm el-Sheikh Agreement contains, as everyone knows, a concrete timetable for the implementation of Israel' s commitments. This applies both to the interim agreement and to the Hebron and Wye Agreements.
Partly this is substance and partly it is in respect of the legal base in regard to the special position of the United Kingdom.
Everyone knows that the peace process is a protracted and difficult affair but we are convinced that, with the necessary trust, perseverance and indispensable political will, our common goal, namely a peaceful and prosperous Middle East, will be achieved.
There is still a need to tighten up in the areas mentioned, and there is therefore good reason for continuing to work resolutely towards solving the problems concerning the lack of transparency and openness in the area of state aid.
In the near future - and I can assure you of this - you will see just how seriously we mean to take these rules.
This is naturally on the condition that the delay does not exceed three weeks, as Prime Minister Barak has promised.
After the resignation of a Commission and after a Committee of Experts has listed an almost endless number of deficiencies, it makes sense that Mr Prodi should have promised, on 14 September, to present this Parliament with a complete plan for reform by February.
I envisage that the board's membership will be made up from stakeholders or representatives of stakeholders.
Behind this lies another ambition on the part of the Commission and of the Council and of the overwhelming majority of this House, namely to introduce such an area.
The guidelines, as adopted by the Commission, are very limited because, instead of meeting the aim of providing guidance, they are providing a shopping list of possible measures, a shopping list which, as it fails to set priorities in ascending order, could even put the Member States on the wrong track by guiding them towards a series of proposals that is at odds with the desired concentration.
I do not believe that the statements made within the Council and the votes are available to the public immediately.
We went ahead because we felt we should start this Parliament in the way in which we mean to go on, that is, by making sure that we take good care of taxpayers' money in Europe.
Lastly, I will repeat for some who have entered the Chamber in the last few minutes, what I said at the outset of my remarks: that I will not be able to stay until the end of the debate, largely as a result of having assumed that the debate was taking place this morning and having fixed a meeting on the Balkans for this evening.
Mr President, our committee views these issues very differently and, to start, I will speak from the point of view of research.
I should be very grateful, Mrs Schroedter, if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations.
In the manifesto of the Austrian Democratic Freedom Party, there is nothing to justify the accusations that it is attacking the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms or the rule of law, enshrined in Article 6 of the Treaties.
I am very grateful to the President of the Council for the statement this morning on the Middle East at the beginning of this debate and for hearing some of Minister Gama' s insights, as he arrived hot-foot from the region.
The work of this URBAN agenda was then taken out to the wider community with an active communication and publicity campaign in local supermarkets and famous British pubs.
The Member States should therefore be able to propose a reasonable number of areas within the financial ceiling of their allocations.
In the present situation, I am therefore sceptical about the idea of a European prosecutor, which it is scarcely possible to implement within the framework of the present treaty.
That is the only deterrent we have for preventing other classification companies from following suit.
Why do we reject the Tobin tax and consider it so questionable?
They have also shown how they feel: not all the demonstrations have taken place outside Austria.
We must make a rapid, strong and united response.
I attach great importance, ladies and gentlemen, in a spirit of discipline and transparency, to our nonetheless retaining some financial strands for matters relating to the exchange of experience and information, and not to propaganda, and to the implementation of networks ensuring good communication of best practice within the Union.
We will support small and medium-sized events, not the large ones, and we will afford individual citizens and also the smaller operators easier access.
Resumption of the session
It contrasts Prime Minister Barak' s personal peace efforts and the distant attitude, even physical absence, of the strong man of Damascus, President Assad, at the negotiations in the United States.
Little consideration, if any at all, has been given to the great problems facing the island regions of the Union whose shortcomings as regards infrastrucutres structure, transport, communication and energy has resulted in their gradual depopulation.
We must understand that there are limitations on what we can achieve, particularly in terms of managing national indicative programmes.
And as soon as these are published in the Official Journal the remaining months - in fact six months - can be used to submit LEADER+ programmes.
You must go further, towards reconciling the people with Europe, in particular those people who are falling victim to economic, social and, probably, in the future, technological divisions.
Madam President, I would like to say that the agreement reached in September distinguished this debate from the annual presentation of the Commission' s legislative programme.
Extending the LEADER initiative to every area in the Union entails the risk of marginalising deprived areas even more, to the benefit of more developed areas.
Do we have any figures?
When this House considered the second report of the Committee of Experts last September, I pledged on behalf of the incoming Commission that the report would be treated as a fundamental ingredient in the Commission's reform proposals.
We also presented a communication on common procedures concerning asylum and a recommendation for a decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations with Iceland and Norway on an agreement designed to extend the rules applied by the Member States of the European Union under the Dublin Convention to those two countries.
Is it the case that the motives behind the proposed measures are in actual fact concerned with reducing the competitiveness of the European car industry?
If we had to give a prize for the article which was most difficult to understand, least clear and most confused - however you like to put it - the competition would be very hard fought. The Treaty is a collection of complex articles.
I would like to thank the Commission for the proposals they have put forward and I am certain that comprehensive discussions with the citizens will ensue here in the European Parliament, on all the issues you have raised.
This necessary realistic and pragmatic policy, however, which will have to be associated with the elimination of the practical obstacles identified as unquestionable factors in this inequality must, as far as we are concerned, necessarily be based on the idea of complementarity, which is the only one capable of justifying a proactive policy on the subject.
The Commission has put forward various proposals which are too stringent and we have come up with some alternatives.
Events such as the BSE and dioxin crisis have stimulated a growing public debate about the circumstances in which precautionary action is justified and necessary.
In his report, Karl von Wogau manages to capture this very well.
For the day has dawned: two irresponsible politicians, consumed with a lust for power, are selling Austria' s image, political role, and to some extent even its economic interests, down the river!
Despite all the commitments made at the highest level, the Council did not manage to take the decisions which it had envisaged.
Firstly, no attempt is being made to change the system in Denmark or in any other country.
Whatever the Eurosceptics say, it is in all our interests to get cooperation in such matters.
Mr Crowley, with regard to the presidency' s scope for supporting actions by non-governmental organisations, particularly those which attempt to resolve the problems faced by the homeless, I would like to say that such initiatives are welcome, and we are very much open to the possibility of supporting them.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like firstly to thank Mr Procacci for his report.
The point was very properly raised by Mr Elles and referred to by Mrs Thors.
The refusal of the European Parliament to grant discharge and the definitive refusal for the 1996 budget; the motion of censure tabled in this House a year ago for differing reasons; and the first report of the Committee of Independent Experts on the reform of the Commission which led to the mass resignation of the Commission itself, are now part of European folklore.
Regarding the role and structure of these guidelines, Mr Hatzidakis, Mrs Schroedter and Mrs McCarthy mentioned that the purpose of these guidelines is to assist national and regional authorities in preparing their programming strategy for each of Structural Fund Objectives 1, 2 and 3 as well as their links with the Cohesion Funds.
Parliament is not taking the initiative and supporting a Tobin type tax just to annoy the Commission.
If we continue down this path, and this is the ideology, and declare the financial markets to be sacrosanct and even claim that any intervention in the workings of these markets is contrary to progress and contrary to the growth of the economy, then we will quite certainly be on the wrong tack and that could take on quite dangerous proportions.
I think that, with this report, we are, once again, one step closer to the realisation of the internal market.
The Portuguese Presidency shares many of this Parliament' s aspirations and has committed itself to doing everything it can to ensure that the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference is widened to include other essential issues.
The Social Fund has certainly improved our third-level institutions, financed our post-leaving certificate programmes and put in place comprehensive schemes to help combat youth and long-term unemployment, assist early school leavers and promote higher standards of adult literacy.
He was under the impression that the Syrians thought that, in exchange for the Golan Heights, all they had to do was to fax the Israelis a receipt.
Mr Verheugen has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
As regards taxation, state aid, the Structural Funds and defending our traditional products, practical measures characterised by daring and ambition must be planned as a matter of urgency.
This Parliament has been given more authority, so let us use it!
The political crisis which led to the downfall of the Commission earlier this year clearly demonstrated the need for unambiguous and enforceable rules of conduct.
However, we have voted against paragraphs 2 and 6, because they seem to us to be legally incorrect.
Since France laid a huge amount of emphasis on legal exemption at the time, it was damaged by concessions in agricultural policy.
Mr President, will a European Public Prosecutor be able to abolish football fraud involving EU funds?
We already have legislation.
I would like to inform you that there is a delegation from Kuwait, led by His Excellency, Sheikh Salem Al-Sabah, Vice-Prime Minister and Defence Minister, here in the official gallery.
On behalf of the Commission I am able to congratulate the rapporteur on having again addressed the genuinely difficult question as to what we can do, in terms of creating legal bases and effecting institutional change, to step up the fight against fraud perpetrated against the European Union.
I have received your letter and have already contacted the British Permanent Representative.
Under the banner of "progress towards transparency" , a range of documents is being locked away from the general public.
And, when I say that the Commission took that view, I include my dear colleague Franz Fischler, who is from Austria; and who, once again, demonstrated his integrity and his independence as a Member of the European Commission, under oath, in being part of that statement that we made yesterday morning.
A better solution would be, as indeed the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism suggests, strengthened coordination between LEADER+ and the Community cooperation and partnership programmes, such as INTERREG, PHARE, SAPARD or MEDA.
We cannot maintain a situation in which investments and the creation of jobs are less lucrative than short-term sales of foreign currency and shares.
In order to achieve this, action is required in four areas.
We are waiting to see what the next move will be.
the oral question (B5-0004/2000) by Mr Désir and others, to the Council, on the Council position on the idea of a capital tax
Mr President, rural development has been identified by this Parliament and the Commission as a priority policy area, and I would like to welcome here today the Commissioner responsible, Commissioner Fischler.
Yes, e-Europe will be the future for us because it will help us create new prosperity and new jobs.
Thus, a more appropriate way to encourage recycling is to tax manufacturers who do not increase the amounts of recoverable material in their vehicles, to encourage private sector recycling companies, through a package of tax incentives and assistance on complying with environmental requirements, and to incentivise the use of recycled materials.
We know that each generation has, over the course of time, blindly bought into what could be called a dominant ideology. This is a set of prejudices accepted as such due to a general conformism, but whose dramatic nature can be seen by subsequent generations.
I do realise that this is only a small step towards increased transport safety, but I would ask you to endorse this report.
New rules have been drawn up and implemented governing the appointment of senior officials.
So although I may not share his conclusions, I believe he has illustrated in his report many of the issues which the Commission must address.
When will we debate that?
Regarding enlargement: what plans does the Commission have to involve the applicant states in debates on these new laws, given that the Commission clearly expects the laws envisaged in the White Paper to form part of the acquis communautaire by 2003?
I should like to ask the Commissioner expressly to confirm that the scheme has not been approved by the Commission.
I will therefore judge you on your deeds.
We should reinstate that instrument and we should make the rules tight so that only in situations where grave disasters occur will we call up this particular instrument.
While the negotiations on the final peace settlement have begun, I think it is important to keep the two processes apart.
I do not know whether this is to appease Mr Kinnock, but I happen to know Mr Kinnock.
European Union Treaties make it incumbent on us to protect fundamental rights.
The initiators of this question do not propose a solution; instead they are calling for a new burden, they are calling for more bureaucracy, for a measure which runs counter to the market mechanisms and they are taking up plenary' s time with an intergroup opinion which excludes the competent parliamentary committee, contrary to several resolutions by Parliament.
This was the choice also made by Israel where Europe suffers from a partisan public image, and this is a fact, not a judgement.
Question No 31 by (H-0795/99):
It is about co-operating on joint projects and about unifying forces on all sides.
I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France, Sweden, Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow.
I would like to second what the previous speaker had to say.
In the last 30 years, the volume of currency transactions has increased by 83 times: firstly, total global reserves of all central banks barely amounts to one day of foreign exchange trading; secondly, annual global trade in real goods and services equals just three-and-a-half days of foreign exchange markets out of 350, that is, 1% of capital movements are for trade in goods and services and 99% are for speculation.
Is that because mainstreaming is already so widespread in the Commission that there is no need to mention women?
I consider that this is a serious defect and that, in principle, it does not befit our legal system.
On the other hand, we have voted in favour of Recital J which, in fact, is in line with what I, as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms, proposed to that Committee, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference.
I think that we have just had a great political debate, equal to the situation and to what could be expected of it.
The overall investment costs for this campaign are estimated to be approximately EUR 30 billion.
Now what is going to happen if we retain a ceiling of 700, bring in 26% more population over time, and then adopt the Commission' s, I think ill-considered, proposition, that there should be a European list of candidates.
However, I do think that it is necessary, as he always states too, that, in the next IGC, changes will be made to codecision, when unanimity will no longer be necessary.
This is a dimension which it is difficult to go beyond within the framework of the European Union, and especially within the framework of the Council.
The Erika oil slick and the contamination of the Danube demonstrates the pressing need for European scale intervention to safeguard the environment.
How will the Commission, as keeper of the Treaties, guarantee that decisions are taken uniformly in matters of competition in London, Palermo, Helsinki and, soon, Budapest and Ankara?
This is my main concern in this matter.
Some people have criticised me over the congratulatory message I sent to Chancellor Schüssel.
First of all, we must shed some light on this shipwreck.
Add to this the fact that he had to do this from his green approach and, against that background, find a compromise. That was not easy.
I would like to express my delight, with you, at this pleasing outcome. In spite of a budget situation which does not match up to our ambitions, these results will now enable us to approach the future positively and I would like to pick up on what Mr Gargani has just said, that the Commission made a statement regarding a mid-term assessment.
Lastly, Mr President, the basic problems justifying this amendment of the directive have been pointed out. We have referred to the delay by the CEN, the amendment of certain provisions, the consistency between the text of the directive and the content of the annexes and the need to for it to be more specific.
Therefore, the proposal of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, and which you have mentioned, is that the Prodi Commission present its legislative programme on Wednesday, including its proposed administrative reform, because, otherwise, we could find ourselves in a paradoxical situation: on the pretext that there is no text, on the one hand, the President of the Commission would be denied his right to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, there would be a debate on a reform when Parliament had no prior knowledge of the texts on which it is based.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it.
For years we have been told over and over that the economy must be liberalised.
That goes far beyond your new economic and social agenda or a new, better quality of life.
I am in favour of stringent environmental requirements, as you know from the auto-oil programme and the debate on exhaust emissions, but I believe that they should be the same for everyone!
The plight of small businesses is also addressed by numerous amendments from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and also the amendments in question from our group to Article 5 concerning costs.
As the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs stressed in its opinion, the Commission must therefore recognise the need to exploit synergies in this context while avoiding duplication of multiple funding.
Firstly, the enlargement of the thematic areas.
It is also a matter of conviction.
Throughout this conference, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the status of the negotiators which is important, but the quality of what they will be saying.
I have endeavoured to secure the widest possible support for the report.
Clearly the Commission has given some consideration to this problem and I am pleased that these reports which have been produced so far have looked carefully at the issue.
It is these questions which cause concern among our fellow citizens.
We again urged the Chinese to begin a dialogue with the Dalai Lama.
You are no doubt aware that approximately 200 000 birds are going to die as a result of this oil slick, which is a major ecological disaster, practically unprecedented in scale.
We attached particular importance to linking the creation of new jobs for disadvantaged and excluded people in the social sector, in tourism and in small and medium-sized enterprises with promoting the establishment of new small and medium-sized businesses bearing in mind the necessary economic structural change.
Effective implementation of this initiative could have a cumulative result because it could inspire similar action at regional and local levels, thus increasing its political importance still further since women need to feel the effects of European policy in their day-to-day life in real terms.
The Balkan Task Force was hampered by the fact that little or no information was available on the actual use of these weapons during the conflict.
I would emphasise that this is going to be extremely important for our future, for Europe' s economy, and, above all, for the protection of our wealth and technological development in Europe in general.
The common position is also no great shakes from an environmental viewpoint.
Now, in my opinion, given that this is such a serious risk to health, the precautionary principle lays down that this product should immediately be taken off the market, which New Zealand has done, for example.
It is a very clear answer, but it is also an answer, may I point out, which puts Danish organisations, the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament in a very, very difficult situation politically, for it is a well-known fact that there are a number of basic problems associated with the relationship between the Danish model, which is based quite obviously upon collective agreements, and the Continental model, which presupposes legislation.
I want to stress that it is extremely important to promote this specific initiative as quickly as possible, both for reasons of political timing and because we believe that it is important that it should begin as planned, in other words, we must be absolutely ready by the end of 2000.
Did these firms need state aid to survive?
On this occasion we have had six minutes of questions from the floor of the House and we have had 29 minutes of response by the Commissioner, and his statement.
Of course there must, but not this type of Intergovernmental Conference.
No indications of contamination were found in Kosovo during the BTF fact-finding mission.
We shall give an opinion - which is technically and legally necessary - on convening the IGC on 14 February, but we shall give an unfavourable opinion of its content.
The solution, as I see it, lies in clearly encouraging entrepreneurship.
The third and fourth worlds have been abandoned: just one dollar, one and a half euro would be enough to save a great many children.
However, forgive me if I am a little sceptical of the reply you have just given me.
Thus, Mr President, I ask my fellow Members to approve this report and I ask the Commission, as other speakers have done, to take good note of the conclusions of their sixth periodic report when they address the programming for the period 2000-2006.
I have already written to you on a number of occasions concerning how points of order are raised in the House.
My second point is that we must make rapid progress in the adoption of a common asylum system, adopting common procedural rules and, above all, putting an end to the current confusion between migration for political reasons and migration for economic reasons.
Madam President, according to various Members of your Parliament, more funding should still be made available for major projects.
It is the Member States' parliaments, or people voting in referenda, who are to direct the development of the Treaty.
The problem is that the current political isolation of the country means that access to this area is restricted.
LEADER II (1994-1999), for which a total evaluation has, unfortunately, not yet been completed, had a wider scope than LEADER I: there were probably over 800 beneficiaries and the sums allocated, after reallocation of resources, probably amounted to over EUR 4 000 million.
Everyone should be given the opportunity to benefit here from a common initiative regardless of their age, gender or origin.
I am thinking in particular here of fish and shellfish companies, which have been particularly badly hit.
The time-scale therefore proposed by the Commission is very ambitious.
I belong to a world, the world of Liberal Catholics, which is not left-wing but which holds as dear as anyone else the values of tolerance and common European values, and will have nothing to do with policies that reject these values.
This is in place too.
We understand that it is important that the two institutions - Parliament and Commission - cooperate and work together and that the current cooperation with the Committee on Regional Policy, and in particular the transport group, is magnificent.
But all this, in effect, is so much rhetoric when we look at the national, regional and local obstacles which continue to block the operation of a true European single market.
INTERREG has always been at the heart of a genuine Community policy for regional planning and a truly polycentric notion of our European territory.
I will be very interested to hear the views of Parliament itself in relation to this matter.
If we allow Europe to be watered down as a result of enlargement, we will drown in our own political quagmire.
This means that they must function more simply and more rapidly.
That is most certainly relevant.
Having better, more detailed information available, particularly with regard to the objectives pursued and the results recorded, must make it possible for the European Commission to itself proceed or to commission in a regular manner studies of the social and economic evaluation of national and regional state aid policies.
The European Parliament has delivered an opinion on the Commission guidelines for the INTERREG Community Initiative concerning cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation.
It cannot be the aim of European competition policy to make life impossible for small businesses.
How strongly is the single market established at the moment?
If we are to ensure that we defeat the fear-mongers amongst us - those seeking power on the backs of anxious citizens - then we must seriously address the question of how we can live together and how we can dismantle the negative stereotypes that we have of each other, both within the present European Union and among those who seek to join us and, indeed, among those in other parts of Europe and the world who want to come and live and work in Europe.
Only reasonable, feasible and humane principles of immigration and asylum law can counter the irrational, misleading and demagogic allegations of the extreme right.
If today we do not staunchly support the Council, then history will judge us, saying that we achieved the political equivalent of the Munich Agreement.
Mrs Theato' s report may help to restore confidence in European institutions.
The activities of the entire Union must be reduced to core areas of policy.
We all hold the view that competition is vital to the economy and requires there to be efficiency, and I believe we should also permit competition in the regions.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak on behalf of these groups in favour of this proposal?
Today, we run the risk of adding a new institution to the already numerous and varied institutions which exist within each country.
This must be brought forward.
I would in any case like to congratulate him on his report.
The Union can only impose sanctions in the field pertaining to administrative law when cases are exposed.
We are looking for solutions.
The PPE-DE Group is requesting that this item be taken off the agenda.
I would also like to express my concern - which is very considerable - at the statement by some Ministers at the last Ecofin that says that it should be a priority of the Portuguese Presidency not to alter, in any circumstances, the financial perspectives agreed in Berlin.
I know there has been an analysis of the implications for the Commission of the change.
Mr President, I have a question concerning an actual, concrete case in which it should be possible to apply the precautionary principle.
The enlargement of the Union is inspired by our wish for peace, security and stability.
Is it true that the contents of all parts of the proposal will be approved?
This is why I and my group are so firmly insisting on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I would like to single Mr Wieland out for special mention, for he has the dubious honour of being the shadow rapporteur and was involved to a far greater extent than is customary in the drawing up of this report, contributing excellent and constructive ideas; and this without being in a position to receive the plaudits awarded a rapporteur.
Would it not be beneficial, in the short term, following the Rotterdam model, to inspect according to a points system in which, for example, account is taken of the ship' s age, whether it is single or double-hulled or whether it sails under a flag of convenience.
It seems important, in this respect, to underline that the service provision card will be issued in a flexible manner, namely within five days of a simple declaration' s having been submitted to a Member State where the service will be provided; and that, also to prevent misuse, this document will have a restricted period of validity which will not be automatically extended.
Because LEADER is a kind of workshop with a bottom-up approach, a huge number of ideas have come to fruition in recent years through LEADER I and II which of course at some point will no longer be brand new or as successful as they once were.
Madam President, when the Commission said yesterday morning that it notes the views expressed as a joint statement by fourteen Member States and shares the concern that gave rise to that view, I think it can be taken for granted that since yesterday morning, as soon as the Commission could discuss the issue, it has had a view consistent with that of fourteen of the Member States.
I remember what Portugal and Greece used to be like when I drove through those countries for the first time twenty-five years ago.
We have received many excellent observations and contributions which give us the material to make a cost-benefit assessment for business.
You wanted and have obtained the abolition of internal borders. Consequently, you have opened Europe up to an explosion in crime and insecurity and to a flood of uncontrolled immigration.
The report shows that, in general, they are a long way behind EU countries, especially in terms of GDP per capita.
Just as it also must not fail to include everyday issues which, for that very reason, are highly visible to the European public.
Madam President, Mrs Díez González and I had tabled questions on certain opinions of the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, which appeared in a Spanish newspaper.
It did this as well.
We sometimes regulate things which could, by and large, remain subsidiary.
Unless we require that the owners of the cargo be held liable, we will never, in my opinion, resolve these problems.
The Commission is, in fact, retaining not only the power to take matters out of the jurisdiction of national authorities, but clearly obliging the national jurisdictions to avoid disputing the decisions of the Commission at all.
Kosovo Albanians and Serb deserters are being refused refugee status, whereas Pinochet is calmly escaping prosecution.
Any analysis of economic development in recent years, if objective, will show, through the figures, that they have no political colour or orientation.
In 1999, we also presented a communication on victims of crime in the European Union, which led to discussions that were given greater impetus at Tampere. This communication called for minimum standards for protecting the victims of crime, in particular as regards their access to justice and their rights to compensation, including the cost of justice.
There should be no attempt to have one or other organisation, which is just being formed with a view to contributing a new idea and is not yet so well known, pushed a little on to the sidelines, say because of official local or regional policy.
From a political point of view, I always fret when people say, we neither need, want nor can we achieve these things!
Which Commissioners are members of this group?
Furthermore - since we are in this European Parliament - if we have still not managed the slightest agreement with regard to the package of fiscal measures proposed by the Commission within the European Union, how can we expect to achieve a fiscal agreement on an international level?
I would, therefore, ask the Commissioner to ensure that a balance is struck between these different groups.
I want to emphasise that a number of the other amendments affecting the proposal' s basic components involve a considerable watering-down of the level of environmental protection aimed at by the common position.
Finally, I welcome the Commission's statement and the fact that this says for the first time that the EU is prepared unilaterally to introduce measures to make it easier for developing countries to gain access to our markets.
You spoke to us about the start of your tour around the various capital cities and told us about the difficulties that some governments have in reaching a consensus in their own countries, and therefore in their parliaments.
This has been an environmental disaster as well as a deplorable waste of resources.
But a system cannot function in this way: it will only work if the two aspects go hand in hand.
It is meant to provoke because there is a very serious issue here that some countries do not hold EU law in the respect which it deserves.
In this way, a small European reform may hide a medium-sized one, and a medium-sized one may hide a large one.
However, the delayed presentation of the draft guidelines has caused a number of problems.
He or she already pays enough in taxes for this vehicle, which is a bottomless pit in financial terms.
The procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in Regulation 1762.
The necessary and valuable spirit of initiative must be offset by a sense of responsibility towards society.
Any aspect of this which may impinge on the Commission' s right of initiative will obviously have to be done through the Commission itself.
There needs to be much more openness and transparency on this issue than there has been to date.
They have been put into the hands of a single Commissioner, Mr Antonio Vitorino, and we congratulate them on this as well.
The Erika shipwreck is a truly European issue, firstly because it is disfiguring and polluting some of the most beautiful beaches in Europe, with extremely serious consequences for tourism, people who earn their living from the sea and environmentalists, and also because the underlying issue is the regulation and monitoring which ought naturally to be on a European scale.
Mr President, the various motions for resolutions tabled in Parliament more or less represent the situation in the Middle East.
The discretional power of the State, which you propose in point e of your Amendment No 10, seems to me to be inconsistent with the rest of your excellent report.
Today the programme is in place and therefore I believe we have achieved something important, that distinguishing mark of the European Union called the URBAN programme.
Naturally, sensible safeguards are required to protect specially sensitive information, but the cases where these are needed should be kept to the minimum possible.
If there is more symbolism than reality in what we can achieve at Community level, this is a pity because there is a lot of enthusiasm at local level for action, including Community actions, on energy saving.
Well, we cannot accept such statements.
Furthermore, not all Member States have abided by the Court of Justice' s verdicts with regards to the lapsing of the work permit requirement, and they still have a multiplicity of unacceptable barriers in place in respect of cross-border services; barriers that are often impossible to overcome, especially for the smaller companies.
I have not given full and detailed consideration to issues relating to and surrounding questions of liability despite my background, but it seems to me that there may very well be subsidiarity issues involved.
The torrent of confusion and rash actions that has been unleashed over Austria has blown things out of all proportion. It has caused considerable distress to decent citizens and evokes risks that had previously not even been considered.
In my view, and I say this quite clearly, the question is ideologically motivated rather than solution-focused.
The fundamental question, it seems to me, that faces this Parliament, the Commission and the Council is: What is Europe?
In this respect I would like to tell you that the Commission is prepared to keep the chairmen of the various committees involved in this area regularly informed, on a confidential basis, if the nature of the information provided requires confidentiality, on the different schemes being implemented for macroeconomic assistance.
I believe that the public will start to show more interest in politics if we can tackle the major issues alongside the day-to-day ones.
What we are proposing is that it should not just be a case of having to apply for the EU service provision card for all Member States, rather one should also have the option of applying for it for individual Member States.
It is right for joint resources to be controlled supranationally and not to be delegated to the Member States or the TAOs, as has been the case in the past.
We therefore feel that you acted correctly in sending a message and that perhaps those who protested about it are still feeling the effects of Bolshevism or Nazism. Democracy means dialogue with others and making others realise when they are wrong, but also listening to their explanations.
Even the strictest control cannot solve this problem.
Clearly, any future social action programme should take account of developments, for example within information technology, and, in time, become a modern social action programme.
That is the position which a clear majority of the Committee on Budgetary Control subscribes to.
Secondly, partnership, a subject which a number of you stressed, the role of local and regional authorities, the private sector, both sides of industry, associations and local community action groups.
Finally, and in order to respond to the concerns which you have expressed in this House, particularly yourself, Mrs Schroedter, in these guidelines we recall the importance and the definition of integrated strategies, for development or redevelopment, which, of all the priorities, offer the maximum opportunity to synergy, to the measures undertaken and to the establishment of a decentralised partnership. You expressed some concern about what might look like a lack of reference to this partnership, yet there is a clear reference to it on page 5 of the guidelines.
Koch Report (A5-0105/1999)
The next item is the report (A5-0022/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council decision providing exceptional Community financial assistance to Kosovo (COM(99)0598 - C5-0045/00 - 1999/0240(CNS)).
What we are doing today is essentially a nuisance.
So, really, these bodies should already provide for a balance, and take into account the wishes of the union movement and environmental movement in the process.
Accordingly, we welcome the related references in Chapter 7 of the European Commission' s proposed general guidelines for INTERREG.
That is why I will only believe that there is any point to having this debate today if what we are all saying today, and what the Commissioner has announced here, actually leads to legislation being produced; in other words, if you all go and say to your Heads of Government and Ministers: "you must push this through in the Council of Ministers" .
Ever since we signed this protocol in Montreal, we nonetheless have international recognition and a common definition written into a protocol dealing with the environment, health and trade.
Mr President, once again I would like to briefly outline the economic issues involved in this directive, and reaffirm my support for the amendments tabled by my colleague, Bernd Lange.
There was a clear agreement, good or bad I will not say, but there was a contract. There was a clear understanding between the Commission services and the Committee on Budgets that there was agreement on Amendments 4 and 7, i.e. on the idea of linking the mobilisation, the implementation, of the second tranche of macrofinancial aid to the condition that donors should first have fulfilled their relative obligations in terms of payment.
I have already said that Turkey is part of the NPT and of the Convention on Nuclear Safety.
In addition, we call upon the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference to take up debate on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office for the protection of the financial interests of the Union, where possible on the basis of the now widely recognised study compiled by well-known experts, the so-called corpus juris, and of the feasibility studies that have subsequently appeared.
Better to heed calls to amend and improve existing legislation than to embark on new proposals.
An integrated development policy for all rural areas in the European Union is therefore needed, consisting of the following elements: an integrated, multi-sectoral approach, simplification of administrative procedures, improvement of the partnership between European institutions and national and local actors and protection of the environment.
What we are going to vote on tomorrow is to ask the Commission to study the matter, to look at what steps and what conditions would be necessary for the introduction of such a tax.
Secondly, encouraging exchanges, mobility and training in the cultural sector.
It is therefore a matter of urgency to improve forest roads, and to repair them as quickly as possible.
Of course, there is a need for solidarity here.
In our Group, we find it hard to see how the financial administration for 1997 was in any crucial way better than that for 1996.
One might ask how it is that the current Commission is to receive the discharge for its predecessor' s budgetary management - Mr Camre just mentioned this - particularly as the discharge for the previous year, 1996, was denied.
I would remind you that these projects are multiannual.
Mr President, the storms which devastated France during the night between 26 and 27 December have caused, as has been said, 90 deaths and damage to a value of FF 75 billion, i.e. EUR 11 billion.
Please, Mr Prodi, stand by your word and implement your promises.
Let us learn the lessons of the past.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, INTERREG is one of the most European of all the Structural Funds.
The regulations must therefore be reviewed, and I thank you, Commissioner, for highlighting the inadequate features of current European regulations.
First, funding for preparation; second, implementation; third, mutual cooperation to ensure the exchange of experience, and fourth, technical assistance.
Question No 1 by (H-0780/99):
This own initiative must not be destroyed by European intervention.
Mr President, nine million cars are shredded and scrapped every year in Europe.
We have heard one speaker in favour and one against.
Sadly that is the case and we must face facts.
I think that this is an extremely important point: this sense of conditionality, which underlies the European Union' s position, is being maintained by the Council and will continue to be maintained.
The need for transparency is rightly stressed, not least because greater transparency in the way in which the Commission operates will improve the efficiency and will also demystify what the Commission does.
The evidence of the court is that that is happening now and it points to steps which can be taken now to alleviate the problem.
Thank you very much, Mr Radwan.
They must promote a decentralised, efficient and comprehensive partnership based on the skills and commitment of all sectors in regional and local authorities.
The Union' s borders must no longer be an obstacle to balanced development, but - on the contrary - an opportunity, a bridge to more fruitful cooperation.
I look forward to having a useful exchange of views this afternoon with the Members of Parliament who would clearly have preferred to do this last week if there had been an appropriate parliamentary forum available.
It is not always easy to describe exactly how this process is done, but there is no question of changing the scientific base.
Langen Report (A5-0073/1999)
The overall plan failed to do justice to any of this.
This Community initiative succeeds the two forerunner programmes ADAPT and EMPLOYMENT and has a much smaller budget of around EUR 2.8 billion.
It is clear that there is no lack of legislation.
I am therefore in favour of the Commission delegating the practical details and implementation of measures to the Member States and regions.
We need to be assured that consistent under-performance must lead to dismissal.
The problem is how in practical terms to implement the compromise which we accepted.
The committee based its conclusions on these critical comments.
I am very much hoping in the next few months that the Commission will be able to produce a communication on human rights pointing out, among other things, that there is no disjunction whatsoever between a regard for human rights in China or other places in the world and the trading and commercial interests and other interests of the European Union.
Such a view is not only a political cop-out, it is positively dangerous.
In my view, Mr Prodi, judging from the text and the document that you had sent to us, one subject that is very important to both of us has been given secondary importance, and that is solidarity, not so much at international level as at internal level.
As an ecologist, let met tell you that the precautionary principle and sustainable development require much more diversified and many-sided approaches.
We are all aware that, to this end, it is essential for the Council to approve, as quickly as possible, the scoreboard which Commissioner Vitorino has the remit of establishing.
As far as the package in question and people with special needs are concerned, there is a directive which concentrates on combating discrimination, especially in the workplace.
We should also have the humility to recognise that, if we wanted to have a strategic debate accompanied not just by a presentation and elucidation by the President of the Commission, but also by a five-year programme, we should have the mechanisms in place more than just a week in advance of the debate in this House, so as to be able to discuss and convey in due time to the Commission what our wishes were.
The new model now being tested by the Commission ought not to lead to a process of nationalisation pure and simple which would undermine the established competition policy.
We just need a bit more time to work out the details on the asylum question and I would therefore request that the vote be postponed from this morning.
We have no intention of giving Brussels the job of regulating regional planning in the Member States, as suggested in recital of the report.
An important role for the committee will be to give advice on ethics and standards and to supervise common and separate codes of conduct for the institutions.
The report that we are debating today intends to give political force to many of the recommendations of the Committee of Experts commissioned by this Parliament.
Because anyone who develops a project and has it ready will also want to start implementing it as soon as possible.
There is no reason whatsoever why representatives directly elected by citizens should be involved in talks at a lower level than the Commission.
The Commission was certainly very anxious to ensure, Mr Berend, that this sixth periodic report should show that progress had been made and a threshold crossed in terms of the quality of the analysis submitted to you.
The reason for this decrease is unfair competition from South Korea and Taiwan, in the case of steel, as a result of their different working conditions and conditions governing aid.
I am far keener to see us move away from today's car, weighing 1,400 kg and driving an average of 200,000 km, to a future car capable of driving the same distance but weighing just 1,000 kg.
We have also offered very substantial support to Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Egypt.
I am happy to say that I can regard the end result of conciliation as very satisfactory for Parliament as the joint text has incorporated all its amendments either in full or in a re-worded form.
This is not the case!
This is one such case and discussions are under way between the Danish Government and the Commission in order to find the best possible solution to the matter, to the benefit of the workers who meet the requirements and who, as things stand, have a right to this pension.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the reform of the Structural Funds the Community initiatives are being pruned to a total of four.
Mr President, there is a great lack of transparency in the area of security, freedom and justice.
That is why I voted in favour of the amendments.
Ladies and gentlemen, on this point we must make it clear: in the context of subsidiarity, the selection of zones or municipalities eligible for URBAN is primarily the responsibility of the Member States.
The reform is important but, if it aggravates the situation, reduces or weakens the supranational powers of the Commission, then the structure of European integration, as planned by the founding fathers for the European Commission, will be at risk.
We are therefore going to vote in favour of the demands for reforms which are presented in the resolution, but against the granting of discharge.
We need an independent judiciary - this would certainly be difficult to establish -, we also need funds for the office of High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Article 73 c of the Treaty establishing the European Union provides scope for taxation on transactions.
We have resubmitted a few amendments which fell in committee, in particular, our desire to see the codes of conduct revised specifically to include the reference to merit and managerial capacity which you, Commissioner, accepted - when we had our hearings last September - should be included in these codes of conduct, particularly when considering appointments and promotion.
If the Commission implements the White Paper objectives, it seems to me that discrimination within the internal market and between external and internal legal advisers will become more pronounced and hence even less acceptable.
We see a further example of this with the planned layoffs in Europe proposed by the corporation ABB Alsthom Power.
The resolution makes no clear reference to respect for the Member States' national identities and constitutional traditions in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty.
It may be a matter for discussion here and elsewhere and I will listen to any suggestions that are made but my preliminary conclusion is that this Authority should be located centrally rather than on the periphery.
It should prevent society from splintering.
The rapporteur has pointed out to the House that in its common position the Council has accepted six of Parliament's ten amendments put forward at first reading and that the substance of Parliament's other amendments has been retained.
That is why we spoke in favour of breaking down the budget, the allocation of funds that is, into the different types of measure.
The economies are growing, we are enlarging to 25-30 Member States.
We need competition if there is the least unemployment, for a smooth-running healthcare system, for social justice, for high social standards, and, of course, we also need - these are competition criteria to do with the economy - business management competition so as to achieve highest-quality products, equal market access conditions for all enterprises, and environmentally-friendly products.
Have you received any notification of any Members leaving the Group of the European People's Party or does the Austrian People's Party continue to sit in that political group?
There may well be contradictions between the two objectives and there is nothing to show that the Commission has pointed out those contradictions and how it proposes to deal with them.
The creation of a Charter of Fundamental Rights will be one of the important projects in the immediate future.
Europe must play a role in this new international regulation and I am extremely happy that today, with this debate and this motion, this question is now on the agenda of European construction.
This is, of course, because it is a waste of resources for us not to ensure that materials in cars are recycled.
I believe that we can and must improve the existing legislation in this regard.
We must govern Europe in such a way as to make us more efficient, to bring us closer to the citizens and to encourage everyone to get involved, starting with the important issue of the involvement of women.
Transnational strategies are intended to make it possible for disadvantaged groups to have access to jobs.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
I am thinking of technological research and development, infrastructure provision and quality, human resources potential, small and medium-sized businesses and direct investment from abroad.
However, in the absence of these powers, it should not seek to substitute a less effective measure.
On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to focus on the point of internal reform.
It must not be allowed to remain a mere declaration.
Your idea is to concentrate your activities on the core tasks. This is one of the goals of your reform.
Unfortunately, we have recently witnessed the eradication of Serb, Romany, Turkish, and Croatian minorities in Kosovo and we are now wondering what will happen next.
This initiative should give the countryside new impetus to develop and test new and original ideas, ideas which it is then intended should at a later stage be incorporated in the general programmes as models.
I am happy with the rapporteur' s treatment of state aid and I congratulate him on this.
And indeed, on the subject of the balance of rural society, let us not forget that there is also the new rural development policy cofinanced by the EAGGF Guarantee Section, aimed at promoting reform in European agriculture and supporting the multifunctional aspect of agriculture.
The extent of the damage caused on this occasion was determined by the population density, the type of infrastructure, and, of course, the many monocultures, if we are talking forests.
That is something for which I have a deep appreciation.
Amendments Nos 7 and 8 are acceptable too, provided the situation of posting is established in the Member State in which the service provider is established.
What we need most of all is to have the courage to undertake a critical examination of the Union' s policies to date.
They find it is extremely difficult to spend the money on their most needy causes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Community initiative LEADER proved itself to be an effective instrument to initiate innovative developments and pilot projects both within and outside rural areas.
Instead, we should go for good-quality projects that can act as a catalyst to effect change and renewal, to attract inward investment in terms of loans and venture capital and to achieve a multiplier effect.
Yet the erratic movement of these massive sums of capital can, in a few hours, cause the collapse of a currency or the economy of a country, plunging its whole population into recession.
Codecision and unanimity do not go hand in hand.
The second important problem is that we have been asked for payments, the donors have made commitments and, obviously, we are the only ones actually paying.
In that event we would not have moved forward, but rather backwards, in the application of competition policy in the Union.
We should remember that the effectiveness of expenditure is not measured by the volume of funding allocated to the project.
That is the same as a single, medium-sized, German opera house' s expenditure over the same period, when here in Europe this sum has been earmarked for 29 countries over a period of five years!
I am very pleased that agreement has also been reached with the Council on minimum standards regarding examinations, although I would have preferred it if uniform, set standards and modules had been established, so that certificates would be of equal value internationally.
The first proposal for a directive will authorise businesses established in a Member State which employ workers who are third country nationals to assign such employees to another Member State on a temporary basis to provide services there.
As the House knows and has repeatedly said, the scale and scope of the Union's financial interventions have grown immensely in the past decade without a proportionate increase in staffing or an adjustment in procedures.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
Local politicians cannot do that, once legislation has been passed in Brussels.
Since the Treaty entered into force, Community law on competition has been one of the tenets of Community policy.
Parliamentary support in pursuing that essential course for change will be absolutely vital.
Mr President, just before I went down into the Chamber, I received an e-mail with a quite emotional description from a Swedish woman who had chosen to spend New Year' s Eve on the French coast in Brittany instead of staying at home and celebrating with her relatives.
The fact that the main responsibility for the peace process lies with the occupying country, Israel, does not prevent the Arab partners from also having a considerable share of the responsibility.
I urge the Commission to be less cautious.
Anyone who would jeopardise production at this steelworks on principle, by demanding the return of the aid that was granted at the time, would not just place the steelworks itself in jeopardy but also one of the region' s employers that small and medium-sized enterprises are, of course, dependent on too.
This proposal will remove the current budget line B2-5122 and create a new budget heading B1-382.
I believe that Turkey completely recognises the standards and the criteria of the convention on nuclear safety and the non-proliferation treaty, but there is no doubt that there are concerns in the public in Europe and I think it is quite right to discuss them here in Parliament.
In recent years, the transportation of dangerous goods nationally and internationally has increased considerably, increasing the risk of accidents.
The goal for the years to come is to increase women' s participation to achieve a rate of 40% female participation in the Marie Curie grants, in consultative assemblies and in evaluation panels for the whole of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development.
It is no coincidence that the last intervention is the only one that was completely opposed to further European integration. I say this without being the slightest bit ironical about the highly respectable position of Mr Berthu and his group, but it is no coincidence that the European Council' s decision is supported by those who are, after all, in Parliament because - and this is a highly respectable position - they are fighting against further integration.
Mr President, Commissioner, first and foremost I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur and to Mr Wieland for the efforts they have expended in summing up the various proposed amendments and interests in this report in such a balanced manner.
Mrs McCarthy is therefore suggesting an increase in the funds allocated to URBAN and the promotion of this Community initiative through a costly communication campaign extolling the benefits of a federal Europe.
The moment of truth is approaching.
On the one hand, by asking the Commission, within the scope of aid to the fishing industry, to implement special measures to compensate for the effects of this catastrophe on the industry in the areas affected, and also by asking them to demand, of international bodies and of themselves, tight controls on ships which sail under flags of convenience.
I have heard in the course of the discussions that have taken place in the last few weeks that the Member States do not have enough money to undertake the controls.
Nevertheless, the legal mechanisms that exist in the Treaty are weak, difficult to apply politically and legally, do not define the powers of the institutions and do not guarantee fair legal treatment for processes of major importance. Suspending a state is just such a process, and is to be condemned.
So who is this then?
My second point concerns the safety of these plants.
With regard to your suggestions, Mr Jonckheer, you already know that my staff, who, although short-handed as usual, are fortunately highly qualified, are working hard to produce the register of State aids and the State aids 'scoreboard' .
This is especially important to smaller linguistic areas. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and also Mrs Reding for Culture 2000.
Then they too will be prepared to really support enlargement and help to achieve it.
I have read a few documents written by Mr Kinnock and we have every confidence in them.
Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
The Commission also agrees with a provision for cases in which the contract of employment between the service provider and his employer is terminated at short notice.
You must not allow yourself to be distracted by the sole issue of enlargement, however important this may be.
National governments provide subsidies and promise that this is the last time, but then it happens again.
Yet they reckoned without the salutary reaction of the nobodies, both individuals and States. This reaction was more organised than previously, due in France particularly to the magnificent ATTAC network which is fighting with increasing support to limit free trade in general and to establish taxation of international financial transactions in particular.
However, I do wish to mention - since you have asked me to do so - that, as far as I am concerned, this partnership - and I spent long enough as a regional administrator within my own country to be able to say this most sincerely - is a tool, one used to involve local brainpower, be it in the public sector, in the form of elected representatives, the social and educational sectors, associations, or in the private sector; a decentralised partnership, and let me mention in this connection, in response to Mrs Angelilli, the territorial pacts, which are one of the means available to this decentralised partnership.
Koch Report (A5-0104/1999)
Because Denmark does not have a system for declaring collective agreements to be universally applicable rules, provision must be made in the implementing legislation so that, apart from current conditions of employment stipulated in legislation, the hours in universally applicable collective agreements, concluded by the most representative organisations, also apply to posted workers.
The amount for the 1994-1999 period was EUR 900 million and will be EUR 700 million for the 2000-2006 period. This represents a drop of 30%!
I would welcome an assurance from you that you will order an investigation to ensure that the two Members who were named in this particular BBC interview are not running their companies from this Parliament or from parliamentary offices, because that would be a very serious matter indeed.
Taking these aspects into account, I consider it appropriate that we create a framework of this kind, as proposed, and I also consider it necessary to the further development of OLAF.
Portugal is a country which has clearly demonstrated its sensitivity to issues relating to the sea.
The Council?
I share that concern and I believe that this issue should be addressed.
The aim of the two present proposals for a directive is to promote the free movement of services within the internal market by means of introducing the EU service provision card.
According to the terms of the directive, the employer would be simply required to request a service provision card for each employee concerned.
We advocate that it should be implemented in its entirety.
They have earned the confidence of their fellow-citizens.
At the time, I did not know that Commissioner Bolkestein was going to appear next week before the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism to discuss this matter.
Within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the Jonckheer report has given rise to bitter controversy on the subject of the operation of the market.
This House has expressed its opinion on the first issue and it will also do so on the second.
I should like to ask that we consider granting derogations not only in the Nordic countries but also for mountainous areas - the Alps, the Pyrenees and the Sierra Nevada, from where I have just returned - in respect of population size and density.
The focus on the political precautionary principle means that we have being discussing it for almost two hours and this topic is now being viewed, so to speak, as more than an ordinary aspect of administration, even though, as we have been able to establish from the interventions, questions and replies, it is a topic which we believe to be of considerable importance.
I also welcome, therefore, the fact that responsibility is to fall to the individual, without the Commission giving up any of its responsibility.
I want to emphasise, however, that whilst internal discipline on priority-setting will certainly be introduced by the Commission, it can only be fully effective if Parliament and the Council share it and take an equally stringent attitude to the demands made on the Commission.
On the one hand, the political excommunication of Austria only demonstrates the worrying influence of conformist thought. On the other hand, if tomorrow the governments of European Union Member States must first receive not the confidence of the nation but the endorsement of supranational bodies, then the very principle of democracy will be destroyed.
The Romanian flag is not a flag of convenience but, nevertheless, that country has an extremely high number of incidences at inspections; more than the countries with flags of convenience.
I would like to say to Mrs Pack that I am in complete agreement with her when she says that the Commission should insist that other contributors fulfil their commitments.
So on the basis of the Treaty as it stands today, the EQUAL initiative is structured in that way.
In specific terms, we have been able to find a common language in terms of the mandate given to the Commission for the next round of WTO negotiations, at which this will be a central issue.
Some may think that the budgetary point should be looked at in due course.
Mr President, the truth is that the news of the indefinite suspension or delay of the talks between Syria and Israel is not good news, but nor is it good news that the day before yesterday there was another bomb attack which injured 16 people.
We can therefore table only one additional item.
Europe, which is so democratic, so progressive, does not speak out or take these tragic problems on board, while half of Africa is dying of Aids and other diseases.
Mr President, like my colleague Mr Evans, it is a particular pleasure to rise and make my first speech to this House on this very important issue, especially since I represent a part of the United Kingdom, the West Midlands, which has hitherto benefited from Objective 2 funding in particular.
Unfortunately, developments are not moving in that direction.
In the light of this sympathy, I would like to continue my response as follows.
If this is the role that the Commission intends to play over the next five years, we federalists are convinced, we are certain that this is not the right path to take and we shall send for you and judge what the Commission intends to do in this regard.
These are the challenges that we - the Commission but also all the other European institutions - are facing.
This being the case, various amendments to the rapporteur' s initial draft report were adopted in committee, particularly highlighting the need for effective reimbursement of aid found to be illegal as well as the establishment of a league table of results.
Mr President, the Committee on Industry decided to go ahead and draw up a report on the discharge for 1997 although we were not specifically asked to do so.
This is natural elsewhere but it seems to be an extremely radical suggestion when it is put to the Commission.
I was myself a car worker before I was elected.
At best this report simply corrects certain aspects and effects of the crisis. Yet only scandalously limited resources are available for this work.
These include the extension of qualified voting - in my country we accept that but not to areas of taxation - the re-weighting of voting in Council to favour larger states and the number of Commissioners in an enlarged Europe.
But the case of the suspect wanted for questioning in connection with the murders of three women in France, including British student, Isabel Peake, who was thrown off a train, shows why we need mutual recognition.
In the light of the above, will the Council reconsider the funding for the reconstruction of Kosovo, as requested by Parliament?
This goes at least some way towards alleviating your concerns, Mrs Peijs.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, how would you take stock of your policy and work programme, what would your benchmark be, if you had to make direct choices?
The fact that the next round of Structural Funds 2000-2006 includes the INTERREG initiative is I believe, a very clear indication of the importance which is attached to it by national EU Member States.
Mr Langen mentioned that a series of Parliament' s demands and points it had to make relating to content were adopted and - as has already been mentioned - we were almost able to meet the Council halfway on even the most contentious point, that of the financing for this multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the Community.
Where I cannot commit myself is on your reference to legislative work in the social security area which, as you know, is not included in the articles of the Treaty and there is no legal basis for social security questions in the Treaty.
In other words, if we are not represented fully in the Commission we will not have an input into policy discussions.
The Commission' s former president, Jacques Delors, has once again publicly raised the issue of a European Confederation.
It is very clear, however, that parts of the Commission services are already very stretched.
Secondly, we should indeed set up a European Public Prosecutor' s Office with two tasks, firstly to assist the national public prosecutors, helping bring criminal proceedings in European fraud cases and, secondly, to supervise Europol and OLAF in a judicial sense because these are two criminal investigation services which can operate at the moment without any judicial supervision.
At the same time, we support the establishment of a European police academy as suggested in Tampere as a step in the right direction.
As a politician she needs to remind her officials how difficult it would be were she to have to come back to this Parliament in a year, were a similar incident, just as devastating, to take place, if some of the measures she has proposed today were simply still remaining as fine words and she had not had the chance to put them into practice.
I also think we should ensure, or ask Member States to ensure, that there is some publicity given to European aid whenever it is used to repair damage caused by natural disasters or accidents.
Packaging still accounts for a mountain of rubbish in Europe and is a burden upon the environment.
The situation of the Palestinians has always been the core issue of the conflict.
This proposal is radically opposed to the spirit of the current system in which the criminal law and criminal proceedings that lie at the heart of the national legal systems must come under the sovereignty of each nation and lie within the exclusive competence of each state.
The mistakes up until 1999 are attributable to those who had responsibility at that time, and we still have no way of knowing whether the new Commission can do any better.
I would ask that they reconsider, since this is not the case.
Who pays for the collection, the dismantling, the disposal and so on?
Mr President of the Commission, you have represented and defended the European Parliament time and again over recent weeks.
They are just as prepared to take on board the fact that Austria will go from being a revered country to a reviled one, as they are its threatened isolation and thus to some extent that of its citizens.
Irrespective of such legal considerations, it would be an unforgivable mistake, under the circumstances, to scrap financial control in the traditional sense at the very moment when those responsible for such matters in the Commission are, at long last, no longer out on a limb but set to become part of a chain of functioning supervisory and investigatory mechanisms.
The cost will not therefore disappear, but now we are clarifying whose liability it is and how the cost is to be distributed.
Mr President, Commissioner, as my time is limited, I shall get straight to the point.
It is therefore good that the EU should act as a godparent to the Palestinian state.
Considering that it is only today that we are dealing with a Commission proposal first made on 19 March 1998, even though Parliament responded relatively quickly, this time lag is a little too long.
I would just like to underline this - the situation is, of course, a little precarious - Parliament has, for the sake of convenience and safety, placed the EQUAL programme on the back burner for the time being, so that Parliament has yet to be persuaded of the way the funds are to be distributed.
This, ladies and gentlemen, could be the decade of Europe. Indeed, I would say that this must be the decade of Europe.
The answer is quite simply because the projects currently being submitted are still too often damaging to the environment due to the way they are submitted.
Mr Newton Dunn, I would first like to say that I do not appreciate the kind of personal comments with which you started your second question, and I would be grateful if you could refrain from making such comments in future.
In some of your amendments you propose that we limit further the type of bodies which can be provided with Union funds, for example, Amendments Nos 3 and 5.
These programmes have, therefore, been important channels for participative democracy, the rationale of the citizen for Europe.
If you want to combat xenophobia and racism, and I believe that we should, we need to look at the root causes.
President.
That is why I welcome Mrs Palacio' s action plan with open arms.
But I would be obliged if Mr Bolkestein would just listen for a minute, which I think he cannot do at the same time as talking to Mrs Randzio-Plath.
I expect that Parliament's contribution to the debate on the authority can be as incisive and constructive.
What it says it that one of two things may apply, i.e. either the legislation in the host country or the collective agreements which have been declared to be the rules universally applicable to a specific sector.
Let us get rid of mismanagement and nepotism.
Aid that is based on the self-seeking ambitions of a nation gives companies unfair advantages, thus distorting competition and leading to an ineffective, uneconomic division of Europe' s meagre resources.
The Commission does not reflect the majority in this particular Parliament.
He is happy to hear what our demands are and is quite prepared to be flexible if he considers it necessary.
This was an important consideration for us.
Instead, we must open the European institutions to the modern world by creating a flexible dynamic which respects nations.
Mr President, I feel that the guidelines for the Community EQUAL initiative, especially the four actions described in it, will result both in complicated bureaucracy and, paradoxically, a non-transparent structure.
It has been extolled and celebrated as a huge achievement and I am all for it; we need a basis for a scoreboard.
I cannot forbear telling you about an occasion when the expression cost-effective was used by people whom one cannot perhaps imagine using it, namely when I was on a visit to Africa.
As Mr von Wogau said at the start of the debate, at the end of the day competition is not an abstract concept: it is in the public interest and forms the basis of the social market economy.
Austria, therefore, is perfectly entitled to form its government and the President of the Commission is perfectly entitled, and even duty bound, to offer Austria his best wishes.
There is more to be said on that score.
We must be prepared to act swiftly to support the consolidation of peace in the region.
The key idea involves making qualified majority voting the general rule while modifying the content of this qualified majority to make it a double simple majority, of States and peoples, in order to increase the Commission' s room for manoeuvre and reduce that of the minority States.
If we think of how the process was looking a year ago, the difference between then and now is like that between night and day, despite difficulties and delays.
If we do not provide rapid assistance then the situation will deteriorate and new conflicts and crisis situations may arise.
Could the Commission say whether the Greek Government has made any specific commitments on how to tackle the problems of youth and long-term unemployment, and what these commitments are? Has the government legislated for and put into place a suitable system for pinpointing, recording and monitoring fluctuations in unemployment, or are most of the measures perhaps still limited to counting those out of work?
The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
This is a true example of the Council' s indifference towards culture, despite its assurances to the contrary that it is a matter to which it attaches great importance.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my report on EQUAL takes the form of an opinion delivered as part of the process of consultation on a new Community initiative, whose objective is to promote transnational cooperation and through it new methods of combating all forms of discrimination and inequalities in connection with the labour market.
When it comes to self-employed persons, in addition to the amendments already described, we propose that the domicile criteria should be made more stringent, and that we should make provision for the possibility of countering any abuse in the way of bogus self-employment.
Mr President, Mrs Roth-Behrendt expressed very many of my own thoughts.
The project has been long and problematic.
That modernisation came to be particularly necessary for five reasons. Firstly, the authorisation system; secondly, decentralised application; thirdly, procedural rules; fourthly, judicial application; and fifthly and finally, excessive red tape.
I concur with what other members of my political group have said and I commend the tone of your document. However, there are two omissions which need to be addressed in our future work.
Although comparing Haider to Hitler is a concept without any credibility whatsoever, it has nonetheless partly achieved its purpose in unsettling some PPE/DE Members of Parliament.
I will give you an example: the European Union was right to support the Grönitz steelworks in Brandenburg, although out of 5 000 jobs only 700 remained.
Report (A5-0073/1999) by Mr Langen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission Report on the implementation in 1998 of Commission Decision No 2496/96/ECSC of 18 December 1996 establishing Community rules for State aid to the steel industry (Steel Aid Code) (COM(1999)94 - C5-0104/1999 - 1999/2107(COS))
Instead, we have been forced to debate the formal, substantial errors that have been made in the last few days.
I have spoken about the Special European Council and about Portugal' s initiative in convening it, and I have spoken about the future, because there are two complementary ways of seeing the issue of social exclusion.
I should like to make just a few comments.
The Europe which results from this is not stronger but weaker, as it no longer knows what it is or what it is defending.
Any future reforms of the European Union treaties will require a referendum to be held in my country.
When will those responsible at last understand that sparing resources is not something we do for fun; nor is it just a question of creating a system for its own sake or a new study group, rather it is a joint European challenge.
From what I have seen of the reform process, it looks good.
He recognised that the combined impact of the single market and the single currency that characterise the process of the European Union's construction is intimately linked to a huge amount of new regulations.
The minimum requirements for this would be for a proper study to be carried out at long last, not only by the Commission, but by reputable economic institutes throughout Europe.
A Europe which defends its values of human dignity and democratic rule of law both internally and to the outside world and, at the same time, looks after its global interests with dignity, patience and convincing self-confidence.
Lastly, I would like to insist that, although we have agreed to EUR 35 million now, we know that this is a stopgap solution and that it is not enough, and we should therefore reach an agreement as soon as possible on the multiannual reconstruction programme for Kosovo, which is so badly needed.
Of course, we accept that amendment - it is absolutely right - and I believe that we should incorporate specific circumstances which demonstrate the climatic diversity of the European Union, which sometimes take the form of specifics and of concrete requirements for the establishment of standards and characterisations of a technical nature.
The Dalai Lama has made it clear that peaceful dialogue is what he wishes.
What are we actually seeking to achieve in embarking on an Intergovernmental Conference?
Since we will be very pressed for time in the topical and urgent debate, in view of the many matters to be addressed in an hour and a half, I simply wanted to ask whether the sessional services might not check to see whether we could have an extra half an hour for the topical and urgent debate so that there is sufficient speaking time.
In other words, we need real cost-effectiveness for our entire energy supply system.
Mr Fruteau, we at least need to recognise that there is growth, and that we are not working in a period of stagnation or recession, as has been the case in the past.
The establishment of the positive list is one of the issues set out in the annex with a date attached to it, 2002 in fact.
That is important.
My group will be supporting Amendment No. 22.
The Commission must therefore be the guarantor of the strategic framework for promoting ability to work and quality of work, of the assessment of results and of the effective communication of best practices.
We therefore await, and I await, the European Commission' s proposals on this matter.
We have to table motions proposing that our citizens might really have a direct impact on decision-making.
I think, therefore, that vintage cars ought to be exempt.
In fact, all hell broke loose in some municipalities in my province.
A conference where the issues are properly debated will make it possible to straighten out misunderstandings, at the same time as perhaps improving upon certain points.
Having said this, some of our fellow Members clearly have qualms because the report by the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities which we have voted on contains one point which may lead to confusion and is interpreted by some as a quota stipulating that there must be 40% female participating in research in Europe.
This debate concerns a vital question which increasing numbers of people are legitimately raising. What are the respective places of people and finance in today' s economy?
Our responsibilities do not stop at enlargement, or at the Balkans.
In my opinion, this is mainly down to the wrangling between the two major groups within our Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr President, I would like to point out that this aspiration on the part of the European Parliament is not an aspiration to gain benefits for the European Parliament itself.
According to its President, it is in a position to do so.
We must not generate a confusion and conflict of jurisdictions about rights, for that would be the enemy of freedom, justice and security.
Is this possible?
As it happens, we deal with the budgetary consequences, the Council makes the appointment.
I am also keen to guard against an exponential growth in the number of special envoys, however worthy the cause.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report, which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work.
However, since state aid forms the lion' s share of the competition report 1998 I would still like, regardless of Mr Jonckheer' s report, to say one more thing about it.
This is why I shall support this report, despite regretting the fact that, for timetabling reasons, the European Parliament was only consulted at a very late date on the guidelines intended to assist Member States, regions and local communities in the programming of Objectives 1, 2 and 3.
Finally, but no less importantly, I would like to refer to the rapporteur' s proposal that, in future, this type of report should also include, amongst other issues, an analysis of the way cohesion is developing between the regions within each State.
No, of course not.
The first principle means creating a new 'pact' between farmers and society, making the farmer 'steward of the countryside' and ensuring that society is prepared to pay for the environmental services needed to safeguard the countryside' s recreation value.
I agree with your analysis.
The draft legislation before the Folketing does not contain any rules governing rights of employed persons under collective agreements.
Others may take the view that it would be a valuable exercise if Parliament, through nominees or even MEPs themselves, were able to have an opportunity to discuss what issues should be investigated.
Mr President, rapporteur, restoring the confidence of the citizens in the work of the European institutions and in European politics is one of the most important tasks we have before us.
Upon referral to committee, we examined over a hundred amendments and, so far, 17 amendments, some of which have already been presented in committee, have once again been tabled.
Nevertheless, the way in which our committee intends to see this text through, with the drive and stubborn desire of its Chair, Mrs Theato, will not be without its critics.
The Commission would like to propose finding a solution to this problem which would then apply to all companies based in the European Union which employ staff from non-EU countries.
The Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before Parliament on Thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction targets annually.
Lasting peace in the region can only be achieved by means of an agreement which guarantees the security of the Israeli borders, as well as Syria' s integrity.
However, we must be vigilant in the face of global operators, against whom nation-states are no longer able to impose limits.
Seven amendments have been retabled for this plenary sitting.
The French text contains the word "refuse" and the English text the word "shall" , which means that the Commission is to keep secret such information as is today available to the public, for example in my own country.
Madam President, President of the Commission, this is a vital document for the future and fate of Europe.
I think that, under the present rules of the Treaties, the European Parliament would have little to gain from a policy of confrontation.
Sometimes within the Community we do not actually have an awareness of what is happening in other countries.
One of the reasons why we are late is because we spent time earlier today rightly stating the rooted opposition of this Parliament to any form of xenophobia or racism.
Since the time allocated to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions 46 to 68 will be replied to in writing.
It lasted only five months.
Finally, after Seattle, do you really think you can advocate increasing the role of the WTO?
Computer-controlled selling programmes turned a random blip into an avalanche, burying jobs, lives and industries across the globe.
We are going to be able to use this as an example of how the precautionary principle is to be interpreted.
Amendments Nos 4, 11 and 30 mean that heavy metals have to be separated from the waste before recycling.
Finally, as has already been said, it is essential, and I hope that the IGC will cover this, to move to codecision with the European Parliament in these areas, with democratic and judicial scrutiny.
Madam President, on behalf of the Members of Parliament who represent the Front national, the Vlaams Blok and the Movimento sociale italiano, I should like to ask the question: in this outrageous interference in internal Austrian affairs which the European Union has undertaken in contravention of general international law, in contravention of the Treaties, in contravention of morality, who is pulling the strings?
I attach particular importance to adopting an integrated approach towards rural development because I am convinced that only cooperation linking up all people from all walks of life in rural areas will permit them to be active and attractive places to live for everyone; I refer, in short, to the multifunctionality of rural areas.
In addition, I would like to point out that the forestry industry is certainly not just about timber production, for barrier woodland and woodland that acts as a shield against avalanches also constitute an important factor in certain regions.
I would thank the Commissioner for her answer.
Of course we would be a lot further on in our procedure if the Council administration had not forgotten to inform the European Parliament in good time and to provide it with official documents.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your dedication.
Parliament has not yet indicated why permission was withdrawn.
I would like to ask the Vice-President if she is in a position to tell us today what the state of play is with regard to the efforts towards harmonisation being made by these two organisations, and whether the EU is in a position to hasten these harmonisation efforts, in accordance with principles that are as simple as possible.
It has already been compiled by the Commission and I can make a copy available to any Member of this House who is interested.
They concern access to training, the ratio of men to women with access to training, and special action for the long-term unemployed.
Accordingly, the bureaucratic hurdles that have to be overcome would be lower in this instance.
I feel I speak for many smaller countries when I make that particular point.
You know that you will always have our support here in Parliament, and that includes your proposal, and we shall be behind you when the time comes to finance it.
What is the situation now as regards efforts to include psychological criteria in this crisis area and provide the best possible support here?
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this matter is on the agenda for the Quaestors' meeting on Wednesday.
It is, meanwhile, very obvious that we will need to work closely with Parliament, as an institution, on central matters of common interest, notably pay and pensions and the revision of the staff regulations.
We in Parliament strongly support the Middle East peace process.
I wish I could give guarantees for many things but unfortunately I am not able to.
Following a letter I received yesterday, I immediately informed the assistants that we would propose that they be allowed to hold a meeting or demonstration, probably in the near future and possibly in the next month.
Because it is political it is more complex.
It will not work as an automatic target, but must be applied in the target area according to prevailing conditions.
Another issue is that of what we are to do when state aid is declared unlawful.
Have you already included your second term of office?
Not a word was said by these same EU governments about coalition governments involving fellow-travelling communists in French or Italian governments, or in German state governments, or even the British government' s willingness to promote those with terrorist associations as ministers in Northern Ireland today.
Unfortunately, it does not give the impression of being a real political strategy on the part of the Commission.
Many personalities and institutions have come out in favour of this tax such as the Brazilian President, Fernando Cardoso, the Finnish Government, the Canadian Parliament last March and also Lionel Jospin in 1995.
There is one thing I would ask though: I believe we must prevent the debate on extending the legal basis for OLAF from leading to the misconception that OLAF does not now have enough authority.
Mr Alavanos, I would like to say that I have the greatest sympathy for the concern underlying the issue you have raised.
It is not something which more senior officials can deem appropriate for their juniors but think that they are too grown-up or too senior to receive themselves.
However, the arguments of the plastics and car industries would be more persuasive if a commitment were to be given to reducing CO2 levels in Europe in other sectors besides these.
Next, I would like to thank the emergency services and the armed forces of the Union' s Member States who, in a fine example of intergovernmental cooperation, came to support the efforts of their French colleagues.
The battle for a workable compromise lasted almost two years, and now, at long last, the European Parliament can give the go-ahead.
We can only do that by intensifying co-operation within the Community.
The Erika cost no human lives but it may have ruined many human livelihoods. Just as the Sea Empress, just as the Braer did.
America and south-east Asia are having a much worse time of it as far as climate and storms go.
Commissioner Kinnock will, tomorrow, present his communication on reform.
You have to accept the fact that there is no acquis communautaire on nuclear safety.
I say that in friendship and honour to my friend and colleague, Franz Fischler.
Reference was made earlier on in the debate to the fact that some thought should be given to the millions of people who work in the car industry in various countries and to those countries which have large car industries, for example my own country, Sweden.
The most remote regions, particularly the four French overseas departments, must be able to coordinate INTERREG III and the EDF in order to fund, in turn, cooperation projects with their ACP neighbours in their respective geographical areas.
There are, therefore, two points to which I would like to draw the Commission' s attention. Firstly, we need to make the best possible use of consultation as a means of ensuring proper coordination and participation by all local and regional operators in decision-making, precisely so that imbalances and inequalities can be avoided.
Does the Commission intend to put forward lowest common denominator policies which will properly reflect the admittedly extreme but nonetheless real-life situation of these women, or will their plight once again be overlooked by the new employment policies?
The destructive effects of the CAP and EMU on the balance between regions, especially on the vitality of the more rural, the more remote and the least populated regions, is proof positive of the fact that such ambitions are not a sinecure, far from it.
Consequently, consideration will also be given to recycling during the conception phase and production.
. (DA) The Left' s Members of the European Parliament attach importance to the fact that, with today' s decision, Parliament has NOT supported the fourteen prime ministers' diplomatic sanctions against Austria.
Secondly, I have to say that the aim of the EQUAL initiative is not to reduce unemployment, it cannot possibly deal with the issue of reducing unemployment, or to support an increase in employment.
I can only fully share your concern.
The tone of the news in the media on the recent events in the area could lead us to take a pessimistic view of the situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, in a few months' time, hundreds of thousands of holidaymakers will again head for the Adriatic Coast to spend their summer holiday.
How do we explain to workers who fall victim to the rationalisations of the worldwide Monopoly game that they must be prepared to change career several times in their working lives when the captains of industry, having lost the gamble of a take-over, leave with compensation of EUR 30 million?
In our view, however, in both respects, greater room for manoeuvre should be left to the administration of the United Nations which, on the ground, is more aware of the reality than we are.
I would be grateful if the President of the Commission would listen to what I have to say, although of course he has no obligation to do so.
Why do I say that culture is important?
It remains to be seen whether or not there is a consensus on this.
It now appears that this desire is more serious.
Among those inspected and found to be in contravention of regulations last year, 15 were at least 20 years old and some were 30 and more.
I was in the region of Lorraine at the time of this terrible storm which destroyed around 20% of deciduous forest.
It outlines the minimum content of examinations and defines the role of the authorising body as well as the requirements demanded of the examining bodies.
We also welcome the conclusions which we find in this document.
The European Union posting of workers directive stipulates that the compulsory rules concerning the terms and conditions of employment applicable in the host country must also apply to workers posted to that country.
Amendment No 19 is also unacceptable, given my thoughts on Amendment No 10.
I voted for the resolution to adopt an opinion is in favour of convening the IGC. I did so because it sums up the philosophy of the Portuguese Presidency, which is supported by a broad majority in Parliament, of opening up the IGC agenda beyond issues strictly related to redressing the balance of power between Member States, large and small, as was originally stated when the Helsinki Council was convened.
I will mention only two, in order to be brief.
It is for the Member States to undertake criminal measures.
There is one basic lesson I would like us to learn from this.
I therefore believe it to be absolutely necessary to establish an interinstitutional dialogue so that we might reach a good conclusion and put all the finishing touches to this essential reform.
.
However, we must remember that the public opinion of 370 million people in the European Union is a vital factor in changing the EU treaties.
I would like to highlight the issue of human rights.
It seems to me that we need to give this some thought, as these cases will no longer fall to the Court of First Instance of course but to the Court of Justice as draft decisions.
To me, this Commission strategy paper for the next five years reads like a scientific paper on the European Union or a declaration of principle.
Projects have to be carried out more efficiently, more flexibly and they have to be made more productive.
Allow me also to begin by commenting on and responding to a couple of the most important arguments in this debate.
You are now proposing to give all decision-making power to a handful of officials. The Member States, local authorities and NGOs will simply become enforcers of decisions handed down from above, all on an equal footing in their submission to Brussels.
I urge you to look seriously at this problem.
On behalf of the Commission, I would be more than happy to make myself available to Mr Karas in case he would like further information on this genuinely important point.
Finally, as far as the technical requirements for ships are concerned, some Members have already mentioned just now that, since 1999 in the United States, ships should in any case be double-hulled.
On the issue of Palestine, I recognise that there are still some difficulties with regard to the implementation of some aspects of the Wye Agreement.
The next item is the communication on food safety and a statement by the Commission.
Madam President, I should like to add my congratulations to Commissioner Prodi's programme.
However, my criticism - and I freely admit this - my rage, is directed exclusively against those who have provoked these reactions and continue to do so, Messrs Schüssel and Haider and their parties, ...
First of all, there is a risk that the decentralisation of powers, though necessary in many ways, will cause an abnormal increase in competition-related initiatives, and that some people will be tempted to use competition law, not as a means to be resorted to when all else fails, of ensuring the smooth and predictable functioning of the markets, but for the purposes of as an instrument for economic and industrial policy, planning and interference with the natural workings of the markets themselves, or even for protectionist purposes.
A total of 48 amendments have been tabled.
The Tobin tax would not have been able to prevent the crises in the EEA in 1992 and 1993 or the crises in the south-east Asian currencies in 1997.
Your question on the common agricultural policy is one which we take very seriously and which should always be considered in this House' s discussions, because in the future we are likely to discuss this issue at great length.
Turning to judicial cooperation, in addition to an initiative on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, I sincerely hope that it will be possible to present to the Council a proposal for minimum standards ensuring an appropriate level of legal aid in cross-border proceedings.
We committed more than EUR 20 million for such projects last year.
We want a strong Commission, which can act in an independent and neutral manner, but with political sense.
The time for resolutions has passed.
That is the only form of exemption which is acceptable.
If these changes to the report are supported by the House today, I believe that they will move us forward in the next phase of achieving the historic objectives which the funds were set up to bring about, namely to assist - in a financially sustainable manner - those deprived areas of the European Union which need to be brought up to a decent standard of living, not by giving a hand-out but by giving a "hand-up".
In this respect, we support Libya' s participation, provided that it recognises human rights, renounces support for terrorists and fully supports the peace process.
I think it would be a good idea if the Commission published a register specifying the amount of state aid per Member State.
Similarly, despite the indication the day before yesterday that the timetable for the Framework Agreement on permanent status has been pushed beyond the mid-February deadline, I very much hope that the much more important September deadline for the final agreement on permanent status will be reached.
It is responsible for reconstruction down there and for the Fourth Pillar, but it cannot constantly be called upon to pay Mr Kouchner' s outstanding bills.
The INTERREG initiative, created in 1990, is built upon the wish to make the regions of Europe ready for a 'Europe without frontiers' in the context of establishing the great single market.
Nevertheless, despite these aspects, European citizens are disappointed and concerned: by unemployment which is not falling quickly enough; by a Europe trailing behind in technology, and seemingly falling even further behind, and in particular a scientific sector which is starting to lag a long way behind too; by the European institutions which appear distant and do not seem to be in step with the times, starting with the Commission itself.
Those of us who have had to live under a dictatorship know of the existence of dictatorships with cardboard governments.
Secondly, the LEADER initiative currently being studied gives special priority to development strategies which aim to give special support to women in small enterprises in the agricultural sector and in rural tourism, with a view to increasing the involvement of women in agricultural regions.
I have already told the European Parliament that a joint meeting will be held in April between Parliament and the Commission, after the Lisbon conference, so that all aspects can be discussed and the social programme for 2000-2006 can finally be drafted.
In your work programme for 2000 you state something quite clever.
I also commend to you the amendment standing in my name and colleagues from Germany, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Sweden and Britain, to remove the retrospective nature of this measure.
As Budgets Commissioner, here responsibilities already include relations with the Court of Auditors.
EQUAL should live up to its name, and this is my firm intention.
Mr President of the Commission, allow me to close with these words: as the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, we have every interest in a strong Commission.
The fact that the Syrian Foreign Minister and the Israeli Prime Minister were recently sitting around the same table in America for the first time in their respective histories is an indication that old hatreds and animosities can be overcome.
We all agree on this.
So, for example, the island of Réunion is located on a trade axis between the countries of southern Africa and those of south-east Asia.
By stimulating a diversity of investments, the European Union is endeavouring to increase the GDP per capita and to boost employment.
We must show them that we intend to use the next five years to help them join the rich regions by promoting the less favoured regions using reasonable means.
My reaction may come as a surprise when I say that I personally am at a loss as to the heightened sensitivity displayed towards Austria in matters of respect for human rights, having a sense of responsibility for one' s own past, and the stability of democracy.
The traffic which had to be diverted because of this stretched the patience of many thousands of people in the EU to the limit.
In the past, this Parliament has viewed the social economy as an important potential provider of employment.
We therefore believe that the agenda should be amended to include it.
As you said, Commissioner, we must ensure that there is compensation for the forced cessation in activity and that appeals can be made to FIFG for investments that have been totally wiped out.
Negotiations with six central European countries are starting today, bringing the European family a step closer together.
We will have to study several indicators, which will enable us to see the current state of regional societies that are in a worse situation than others, and how they are evolving.
The crisis in the Commission was, in fact, a crucial point in the relationship between Europe and its citizens, and the low turnout at the European elections was a worrying indication of this.
These frontiers stretch as far as African states and the Middle East: we must take greater account of the fact that it is also important to develop coastal regions in every part of Europe.
Parliament' s proposed solution of 18 months following the directive' s entry into force, for new vehicles, is not terribly realistic.
I want to start by saying that I am pleased to be presenting this communication on the use of the precautionary principle, and it has been written together with David Byrne and Erkki Liikanen.
In any event, I look forward to the document which was approved by the Commission today.
When we consider that a conference will soon be held in Moscow, it becomes clear that the European Union' s presence in this peace process is somewhat pitiful.
Frustration inevitably sets in when we see the weakness of the Convention (and of the protocols relating to this protection) which, five years after being signed, has still not been ratified and has still not come into force.
This directive is a contribution to this.
Finally, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Reding, Vice-President Imbeni and Mr Gargani, chairman of the Committee on Culture, for the firm and intelligent position which, each within his own role, they have maintained during the entire conciliation process.
They need a political deal.
Of course, if consensus could be reached on this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference, there might eventually be progress.
Firstly, there is the question of trying to combat intolerance with intolerance and the long-term consequences of that.
I would ask the Portuguese Presidency to study the possibility of implementing a complete strategy for the prevention of maritime accidents at European level, using all the means at our disposal - technological, structural and socio-economic - to prevent a disaster such as this from happening again in the future.
It is therefore essential to continue to restrict state aid to research and development, environmental protection and aid granted in the event of plant closure.
There is great potential for future job creation in rural areas here and we must exploit this if we wish to offer fresh prospects to people living in the countryside.
We noticed this when we had to investigate the Flechard affair, which, as it happens, has still not been sorted out.
Because this citizen - one in five globally - still has no access to elementary social provisions, such as education and health care.
Mrs Stenzel' s report has, however, turned out very well, at least where the prescribed guidelines are concerned.
Everything that I have just said, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrates that the Commission is resolved to taken the views of Parliament into account.
This is, of course, a highly sensitive issue.
The chosen threshold of 50 projects seems too low.
It needs to be increased to reflect regional and local factors whilst maintaining financial awards to the Member States.
In addition, the need for greater transparency has been pointed out.
Agenda
As we see it, there will be a dovetailing of three mechanisms in the future: a system of independent prior approval by the financial controller, concomitant and follow-up control by the internal audit service - also known as the audit service - which has yet to be set up, and finally, there will be the targeted tracking-down of irregularities by OLAF, the new anti-fraud office.
With this in mind I must emphasise the importance we attach to the cooperation we are already establishing with the French Presidency, with the aim of organising a Jumbo JHA-ECOFIN Council.
I should like this programme to become a practical reality and for culture to be not only a factor of enrichment for our citizens, both in personal as well as in social and economic terms, but a right which it is our job to assert, and also the hallmark of rediscovered interaction within the Union.
It is now possible, on the basis of Article 280 of the Treaty, that the Commission will take new initiatives, and I would like to suggest to the Commission that it do this at the earliest opportunity.
In assessing the question of whether or not to grant the Commission discharge, the decision must be based upon what actually occurred during the financial year concerned, in this case in the course of 1997.
Nevertheless, it is still regrettable that the European Union, one of the most important financial donors, is still unable to play a major political role in the peace process.
It must be remembered that, currently, the European Union' s overall competitiveness is, in general terms, 81% of that of the United States of America and that this figure will only improve if the figure for our competitive units, that is the regions, also improves. Furthermore, this is at a time when technological development, economic globalisation and our problems, which are enlargement and the single currency, demand that the regions, as well as businesses and individuals, make more of an effort to be competitive.
More specifically, however, I would like to express our delight at the fact that, after such a long time, Israel and Syria are on speaking terms again to resolve their differences of opinion.
Are there any comments?
To avoid this the European Liberal Democrats have expressed the hope that the Intergovernmental Conference will consider the various models of differentiated integration and create a concentric Union, in which there is a federal core and a less integrated outer ring.
Lastly, but maybe most importantly, we are encouraging closer regional cooperation in a number of areas, bringing all the countries concerned together in a joint endeavour to address their common problems.
It is more important than ever that respect for, and non-violation of, human values and the rights of minorities, including the rights of all those who live within the territory of the European Union, form an essential component in the rule of law principle of the EU, and, for this reason, the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be made legally binding.
Finally, Mr President, as a member of the Bureau until six months ago, I would urge you to address this issue in the Bureau so that we here in Parliament at least comply, in our own administration, with the demands we are making on others.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten has our understanding.
That is why, where the good LEADER projects are concerned, we need to ensure that those which have proved to be outstanding are not suddenly discontinued; instead the ideas which have proved to be worthwhile need at some stage to be transferred into the standard programmes as a reliable, positive component of our support to rural areas.
This clearly shows that it is the four countries which benefit from the Cohesion Fund, among other things, which come at the top of the list.
In the new programme submitted for the period from 2000 to 2006, which is being financed from the Social Fund, both the resources and the policies should be used, with the Commission' s support, to implement the objectives which I referred to earlier.
Delays in the CEN' s work are now making it difficult to apply this very directive.
An alternative to the European Public Prosecutor could be Eurojust, as proposed at the last Summit.
Mr President, I would like to begin by joining those who congratulated the rapporteur on this work.
That puts enlargement in danger. It jeopardises any prospect of political union and, of course, it is difficult for the public to understand.
Madam President, the debate on a tax on short-term financial actions is not a new one.
We must opt for a policy of cooperating in the development of our neighbouring countries in the East and the Mediterranean area, but we must do so with rigour, with economic means and in close collaboration with public institutions, which must cooperate in the protection of those citizens whose most basic rights are violated or who wish to emigrate in order to meet their most essential needs.
Gentlemen, obviously the quaestors who look into this matter are not going to be basing their assessment just on information from radio programmes.
There is very little in the way of appropriations to meet these targets, however.
This debate is therefore added at the top of the order of business.
Mr President, being the last to speak gives me the privilege, Commissioner, of telling you that the majority of this House supports your initiative and has expressed a total, and, I believe, justified, confidence in you at the helm of this boat. But we all want to be oarsmen on it.
We are nonetheless very critical of the methods which the 14 Member States have employed on this issue.
.
The funding approved by the Council for the cultural programme does not do justice to the importance of cultural and educational policy and of this programme to the European Union' s goals.
Let me also remind him that when his party leader, Mr Hague, was Secretary of State for Wales, he broke every rule in the book on additionality which led to a stern letter from Commissioner Wulf-Mathies regarding regulatory requirements.
Anyone who is English or British or follows cricket knows what a scoreboard is.
On the question of the referendum which various Members have referred to: we must consider if a referendum always needs to be held in order to honour obligations under international law and under the law of nations.
We have all spoken favourably of this programme' s confirmation and of the extension of the sectors it covers to include the field of transnational and interregional cooperation, in addition to cross-border cooperation.
I congratulate the rapporteur Karl von Wogau, who takes up the theme but also makes quite plain his demand for clarification, indicates the accompanying measures that need to be taken, and pulls no punches when it comes to the problems currently under discussion.
My conclusion regarding INTERREG, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is that these Community initiatives for which I am responsible fulfil a real need and everything that has been said is proof of this. They also foreshadow a real European regional planning policy within our enlarged Union.
That does not apply to Austria alone.
I refer principally to the Palestine-Israel question, but the same also applies to the territories which have been occupied in the Golan since 1967 and in southern Lebanon since 1982.
The perfect illustration of this crippling flaw lies in the opening sentence of the Commission communication.
Mr President, it is a rare honour to be given a second opportunity to ask questions!
The last meeting on the subject was held in November 1999 and we are waiting for the Commission services' final proposals on whether or not infringement proceedings will be instituted against Denmark.
Is this hysteria spontaneous?
We should remember that we, the European Union, are a union of minorities: we are all a minority within Europe.
In addition to the proposals for a new European food authority and an enhanced control system at Community-level, the White Paper proposes an action plan with a wide range of measures to improve and bring coherence to the Community's legislation, covering all aspects of food products from farm to table.
If not, then we will proceed to the vote.
I would like to point out that in May 1999 we adopted a new system for supporting rural development which was the fourth Community reference framework for sustainable rural development.
However, such use of an agreement outside its specific scope cannot be imposed on the two sides of industry without a legal basis.
We demand that the greatest possible transparency should be in place and that greater powers of investigation be granted to the Commission in order to check the legitimacy of such exceptions after the fact.
There are four more sister ships in service at present.
More generally, those signatories who take part in or have taken part in government in the various States of the European Union must take their share of responsibility in the influence which the extreme right has managed to gain since their policy, devoted exclusively to the interests of big business, has not included taking action likely to eradicate unemployment and the poverty it engenders, and has thus facilitated the xenophobic demagoguery of the extreme right.
However, please learn from the events of Seattle: we have to be able to combine the freedom in world trade, on the one hand, with all those values of human importance that we wish to defend, on the other.
In this sense, there is therefore a serious risk that some idiot will decide that the new geopolitical balance of power in the Caucasus calls for a nearby country with weapons grade nuclear technology.
The supposed progress achieved in 1999 and mentioned by the report only occurred in the Dublin Conventions and Schengen Agreements and a further action plan from Tampere which all restrict the rights of immigrants.
INTERREG must, therefore, be an instrument promoting territorial cohesion throughout the Union if we do not wish to see a two- or even three-speed European territory.
Often these problems are compounded by poor health and housing stock and a culture of drug dependency.
The next item is the order of business.
We should alter the staff regulations and disciplinary procedures and, especially, change our practice.
Legal security requires this.
The proposal in paragraph 6 will also be partly accepted because it reaffirms that the time allowed for approving programmes under LEADER+ is a maximum of 5 months.
Thirdly, this directive, as it currently stands in the common position, guarantees - in particular because it confines itself exclusively to minimum standards - a high degree of flexibility and modest regulation by the European Union; by adopting it we contribute to the Member States' bearing a high level of individual responsibility.
Mr President, I want to talk about the EQUAL report, especially the issue of the policy on refugees.
The European food authority will be a key ingredient in the EU's food safety regime in the years ahead.
We are therefore thinking in terms of the Treaty and we want the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference to allow for a deeper reform of the Union.
However, we cannot carry out tests on nuclear plants which are in operation; it is just not possible.
There is, in fact, a risk of a military coup in the future.
Consequently, I do not see that there is any real obstacle to the Council' s being able to move matters on quickly as far as these two draft directives are concerned.
Question No 39 by (H-0807/99):
Our objective is to put in place a coherent and up-to-date body of food law by the end of 2002.
We always come back to the same basic problem in Europe: our economy does not support the individual sufficiently, nor is it sufficiently dynamic.
To that extent, it might be thought desirable, even if it is not a matter of urgent necessity.
First of all, as my colleague Mr Bowis has pointed out, it is retrospective and that is wrong in principle.
The preservation of this Community initiative in particular, in the form of a new version - LEADER+ - is therefore greatly to be welcomed.
The European Commission should therefore be able to participate in the construction of port and airport infrastructure to provide links between regions.
Many existing European Union policies and programmes may simply have passed their sell-by date, or have been proved unwieldy or ineffective when administered at European level.
Mr President, on numerous occasions in the past I have disagreed with the rapporteur on her approach to regional policy issues. This time, however, I actually agree with her.
Competition is not an end in itself, as Mr Rapkay rightly pointed out, but it plays an extremely important role in European integration.
I think that this will be problematic.
(Parliament gave its assent)
A slim right-wing majority succeeded in removing any reference to market failures.
The Tampere Summit was certainly an important milestone in 1999 for Europe, and for the area of freedom, security and justice in particular.
But why pay attention to such detail as basic diplomatic niceties in the face of a tough negotiation process over territory?
Madam President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the Party of European Socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the European public.
In 1998 and 1999 EUR 3.8 million was granted to Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan received over EUR 35 million, mainly for food, medical supplies, water and sanitation.
The citizens of the European Union expect solidarity, also from within this Community.
Secondly there is a lady within thirteen weeks of retirement who is desperate for news of a decision that will affect seriously her financial circumstances in old age.
Before discussing the content of the resolution, I should like to inform you of the elements which I took account of and which guided my work as rapporteur.
All this will be managed with the help of modern technology in any area of the European Union.
We have often asked for a basic timetable for this revision and we have received no reply.
There are men and women who depend on fishing, gathering shellfish and the service or tourist industries in these coastal areas. They are environmentally sensitive areas, but they are also sensitive from the point of view of social development and territorial equilibrium.
One of the objections is that, due to the restricted role of the elected bodies, businesses gain more influence.
Nevertheless, we must stress that many people are aware, as they were yesterday too, of the risk that enlargement could compromise the original plan for the construction of a political Europe, a risk that was, moreover, indicated in an interview that surely escaped no one' s attention, owing to the authority of the person being interviewed - Jacques Delors.
The business of the European Commission is very little about spending money.
This will no doubt allow us to release the funds for Kosovo quickly and deal with the concerns which both Mr Swoboda and Mrs Pack have mentioned.
We therefore think it only right that the Commission should have the task of tabling proposals entailing the further development of the already existing legal framework.
The Commission proposal seeks to ensure that the training of safety advisers is standardised.
I very much fear that we are to have yet another authority that flies through Europe anonymously like a satellite; an authority of this kind would be anathema to me and I hope it does not come to that.
Absolutely, Mr Napolitano. Thank you.
This is not rhetoric, but the new embodiment of a modern liberalism which unites the European States and constitutes a turning point for the European Parliament and the Commission.
Subject: Depleted uranium weapons Has the Commission conducted any studies of the potential effects upon EU states of transboundary pollution arising from the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Kosovan conflict?
That is what I am asking President Prodi for at this moment.
Once the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted the draft report unanimously with two abstentions, I would ask that we make full use of this opportunity, which we have ourselves created, in plenary sitting.
b) Sittings of 1 and 2 March 2000 in Brussels
This is a smear on the voters in my neighbouring country which I cannot condone.
In fact, the guidelines take two horizontal principles into account. The first is rural development, and let me say, Mrs Schroedter, that I am including in rural development the matter of sustainable transport, an issue I have been involved in personally for a long time.
We need to have a wide element of flexibility within the programme.
Eighteen million unemployed and 50 million poor people within the European Union, despite its being one of the wealthiest regions in the world: these are the results of this competition which the European institutions intend to promote.
Naturally you will be perfectly free to ask him questions in the speeches you make following this statement, just as Mr Prodi will be perfectly free to answer you.
If I have not already done so, I would also thank Mr Karl-Heinz Florenz for the hard work he has put into this proposal on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Question No 30 by (H-0793/99):
Since the Belgian Government' s appeal to a higher court was declared admissible last week and since the decision has essentially not yet been taken, it is important for Parliament to at last give out a strong message, a message which should signify that nobody can escape a just trial.
We therefore need to be strict in the enlargement process and respect those agreements which - should it be necessary - need to be redrafted with regard to certain fundamental issues such as the environmental disaster that has occurred in Romania, reaching as far as Belgrade, but above all, the continuing spread of apathy as regards major security issues.
We also feel that it is particularly important to state that the recovery seen in some regions - where it did actually take place - was accompanied only to a limited extent by growth in employment. This consequently imposes the need for new development strategies, with a considerably greater level of attention needing to be paid to this area.
The requirement to lodge applications in Brussels will be dropped; in other words, the Commission will be completely in the dark in future.
All the experts can provide information and news, formulate opinions and give advice, but, they have no political or elective responsibility, and rightly so.
In terms of human rights, this is a backward step.
I wish you a good evening.
I want to emphasise that, as early as 1997, the Commission proposed a special clause concerning manufacturer' s liability and that the Commission entirely supports the common position.
That would be another way of spurring the reform process on.
We could, if one third of the Members of Parliament so requested, require that the Council and the Commission look into the matter.
I would particularly like to congratulate Mrs Stenzel, because her effort to reach agreement on the EQUAL initiative has proved exceptionally difficult and complex, both because some of the committees involved view the issue in a different light and because it is a very sensitive political issue.
The Union has decided to assist with a further EUR 35 million in additional macrofinancial aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo, on the basis of an IMF report which estimates that a further EUR 115 million is needed for that reconstruction.
Much like in the Netherlands, where, at a given point, women woke up to the fact that, by referring to European legislation, they could improve their status in terms of social security, this is now also the case for scores of other citizens.
Five countries have transposed this into national legislation and the rest are at the discussion stage.
I am the rapporteur for ECHO on the Committee on Budgetary Control, and I shall have a lot of difficulty carrying out my work if the Commission will not give me the necessary information.
However, I do not consider a three-month period of employment to be sufficient to prove that an employee is resident in a Member State.
In the divided situation which has now arisen, we therefore consider that the Council' s wordings are the best.
This question has now entered a different dimension, a dimension in which USD 1 500 billion roam the world twenty-four hours a day looking for attractive investments, no more than 3% of which have anything to do with the real economy.
I cannot therefore accept paragraph 4 in the joint resolution, and I cannot vote in favour of the resolution, even though it would be a vote against the extreme right.
It is, after all, they who have most knowledge about the regions which fall under their remit.
I also feel there are grounds for ensuring, in particular, that the financial channels of States or local authorities are not behind the delays in payment which may have caused some LAGs to become bankrupt under LEADER II.
In the next couple of years, we will need to think about the possibility of replacing structural funds by an equalisation fund which is limited to budgetary aid for Member States or their constituent regions with a low income per capita of the population.
In contrast with that, I see the amounts allocated for renewable energies, which are not only an ecological element but which look set to undergo considerable economic expansion.
In this respect, the e-Europe initiative is to be welcomed.
Thank you, Mr Bowe, for your question.
For all these reasons I voted in favour of the Langen report, and I now await the Commission' s response to our requests and demands.
We too want to help put Europe on its feet.
The Portuguese Presidency does not have a magic wand with which it can, in six months, resolve problems that have always existed.
They will look into the matter thoroughly.
Relatively few women, however, are active in scientific disciplines despite the excellent results they achieve in their studies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who work on rural areas know that, of the programmes which the European Union has managed, the LEADER programme, both LEADER I and LEADER II, is one of its success stories, and I hope that the same will be true of LEADER+.
Applying the precautionary principle does not, therefore, automatically imply a ban.
High levels of confidence are necessary to boost job numbers and competitiveness.
Moreover, they constitute environmentally hazardous substances of the worst kind.
Austria is a cosmopolitan country and xenophobia and discrimination have no place there.
The towns concerned estimate that it will be spread over 40 years.
Indeed, these areas - and it is right to stress this - have an important role to play as an interface with the applicant countries that are going to join the Union.
If you decide to add this debate to the agenda, it will be introduced by speeches from Mr Seixas da Costa, President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Romano Prodi, President of the Commission.
Parliament, therefore, can take credit for a successful lobbying campaign to put URBAN back on the agenda and get the Commission and Council to make a U-turn.
Instead of allowing the costs of these disasters to fall on the communities most affected and insurance markets such as Lloyds of London, we must develop new technologies to retrieve from the sea much more than 10% of the lost oil.
The European Commission' s decisions, which feature in the report, are welcomed by the European Parliament, as is the decision to ask for the money back in specific cases, thus applying Article 88 of the ECSC Treaty.
According to information received from the International Atomic Agency, the design of the plant takes into account the possibility of earthquakes stronger than any ever recorded in the area and particularly more than ten times stronger than the one registered in June 1998 in Adana.
It has not yet been passed by the Council; it is at the consultation stage.
Perhaps 'redundant' is the most serious epithet, and you are not responsible for this. It is the responsibility of this Parliament.
We will also pass this on to our services, however.
Let us stop the shadow-boxing. Let us drop the elaborate charades and let us respect the duties that the Treaties impose on us and the timescales allowed for full democratic debate.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Spanish delegation of the European People' s Party, the delegation of the Spanish People' s Party, with regard to Mrs Terrón i Cusí' s resolution on the area of freedom, security and justice.
So our clear response is that, yes, such aid and such agreements are legitimate, but we say that every single one of these agreements must be expressly justified.
We know the social causes which contribute, along with unemployment and instability, to fuelling tendencies towards this; we know the accompanying cultural causes - xenophobia, racism - but with the inability and unwillingness of these extreme right-wing groups to settle accounts with nazism, we cannot fail to point out the possibility of an explosive mixture being created in Europe.
What is more, the agreement on the protection of financial interests and the two subsequent protocols signed by the European Council in 1995 did nothing to change this.
In this area, the Commission has given priority to a number of routes of action: acting on the structure of markets by actively combating anti-competitive practices, by refocusing its departments' supervisory activities only upon matters with a manifest Community interest and by affirming its intention to modernise competition law.
Public opinion, although indifferent to 20 million unemployed and thousands of mad cows, is now supposed to be worried about the fraud endangering financial interests and these two reasons are supposed to justify a twofold solution: a European criminal code with crimes against the Community and a European Prosecutor-General.
I would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity.
I therefore believe that something is missing and I suggest that we establish more regulations, lay down clear rules, which will benefit all of us: businesspeople, investors, workers and the citizens in general.
The directive affords a European framework, also to Member States who already have systems in place and who wish to continue to use these.
Madam President, my Group is extremely delighted that this debate is taking place today, particularly as we have spared no effort along with Members of other groups to bring this about.
The cost of a baby being born blind is too high; there are no benefits that can compensate for this.
Madam President, I should like to leave it here. As far as the resolution is concerned, of which I have seen a draft, the Commission will await the vote and will, based on this, determine its stance.
We have achieved nothing so far, and we have been unable to reach agreement within the European Union.
In the first place, if administrative procedures are not simplified, it will be hard to attain Community objectives on reform, with a view to greater efficiency and concentration.
You will remember that we decided with great expectations here in the European Parliament in December that Eurodac would become a reality as a regulation and as a system, as a Community instrument which we urgently need in order to prevent multiple asylum applications, in order to have an instrument to fight illegality and, above all, in order to set out clearly which Member State was responsible for implementing the asylum procedure.
I urge the Chinese again to do so.
That goes for everybody at whatever level of seniority.
Those districts which have not suffered losses will therefore see their incomes decrease in any case.
Mr President, it is incumbent upon me to remind my colleague, Mr Evans, of why Wales actually achieved Objective 1 status.
If you do not have a certificate then you are not allowed to operate the vehicle.
It would be a serious mistake to eliminate all public aid.
We will publish this material and bring it forward in the debate on the Swoboda report later this week.
At the request of a French Member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been presented, which many people signed, including myself.
The ingredients of this policy are well known. They are the stimulation of public and private investment, increased investment in research, education and training and the promotion of the spirit of enterprise.
I know this is difficult to achieve now, but if we do not achieve fair employment laws for all workers, here and elsewhere, and we do not secure equitable subsidies for all countries, here and elsewhere, it will be difficult to preserve jobs in Europe and outside it.
How do we ensure that unlawful state aid is paid back?
As the final text rightly states, actions such as these can play a role in reducing regional disparities.
- (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to apologise for being a little hoarse today, but we Austrian MEPs have had a lot of explaining and talking to do.
As far as the second proposal is concerned, the Commission appreciates the wish that it should be clear what is meant by someone who is self-employed and would therefore like to resolve this issue in the amended proposal.
In this regard, the current process of negotiations on Malta' s accession to the European Union must be used to ensure that this country rigorously monitors the oil tankers which sail under its flag.
I have also paid close attention to the concerns raised by the Commissioner.
Let me just itemise them: the first point concerns the usefulness of the conclusions of this report in drawing up the priorities of the new regional policy, particularly for the negotiation of programming documents with the Member States.
In any event, this question is not presently included among the requests for topical and urgent debate on Thursday.
In the meantime, they have been forming governments in German federal states.
I come from a region, Galicia, which has suffered similar accidents in the past.
The overall growth of the European Union and the awareness of being European citizens: this is why we believe that the Culture 2000 programme, albeit with a scarcity of funds, can make a considerable contribution to this great common goal.
They will be aware that they have heard from the authority before under other circumstances and hopefully will have some bedrock of confidence already built up in the pronouncements from the authority.
Question Time (Commission)
I am sure that it will serve, amongst other things, to make his second report more flexible and for him to step up efforts to find a consensus amongst the groups.
According to this article, state aid is irreconcilable with the common market, in principle. Exemptions are only permitted in precisely defined cases.
In order to prevent this threat to the system, it is ready to do anything, including overruling the outcome of free elections, including setting up a thought police, including establishing a new form of totalitarianism.
Madam President, Mr Jonckheer has stated that this could be one of the measures for stabilising the financial markets.
I want it to be clear that though I voted in favour of the report, I have this important reservation.
We are setting out a challenging and ambitious agenda for change.
The fourth group is legal certainty.
In order to reduce disparities between regions, of course.
All these elements have to apply cumulatively.
We citizens of the world cannot afford the current rate of speculation.
Then there are the interests of the Member States, which, being on the receiving end, may have to start from the premise of a worst case scenario.
It is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation.
And yet we owe this to the citizens of Europe.
In my opinion, the Commission and Mr Kinnock should come with good intentions and with sound plans on personnel policy and financial management, but each Commissioner who is now responsible for an area which has had serious shortcomings in the past should come with sound plans in order to improve the situation and not with general, empty proposals.
How would you describe this?
On a final note, I would like to thank all those in the Committee who supported me in compiling these reports, which were far from easy to produce.
I have much sympathy with what the honourable Member has said about cultural heritage and about the Buddhist tradition.
There is no lack of examples amongst European texts, and we all know how much debate and argument is caused by a lack of clarity and precision.
Is it not rather melodramatic to say that "the world looks up to Europe" ?
The next item is Question Time (B5-0003/2000). We will examine questions to the Council.
The question is whether the Union can remain indifferent to the formation of a government in a Member State which includes such a party.
The aid system must effectively be continued beyond 2002.
Indeed that is the only way to build up regional economic circulation in the under-developed regions that will protect people' s social welfare and boost purchasing power.
Commissioner, thank you for giving me a well-intentioned answer, which has been rigorous and well-argued.
Our Parliament first asked experts to help it evaluate the performance of the European Commission and they took advantage of this invitation to determine, themselves, what its future should be.
The one and only significance of the European Union is the will to transcend the atrocious history of the twentieth century which gave the coup de grâce to any ideal of humanism within the heart of Europe, and which is still highly topical today.
However, we already knew this.
Our own staff policy is outdated.
We need, in short, to have and to sustain the highest possible common standards and to find ways of securing these.
For this to be possible, what we need from the European Commission are not just good intentions, but clearer guidelines and a firm commitment to monitoring the way these resources are used by the Member States.
In October 1999, following the success of LEADER I and LEADER II, the Commission decided to extend the initiative.
You told us that RINA was an Italian classification register recognised by the Commission.
It is an important Community initiative which, together with the three other initiatives, URBAN, LEADER and INTERREG, is financed out of the Structural Funds.
Furthermore, like the rapporteur, I think that studies must be undertaken to analyse the reasons for the gap between the number of women with science degrees and the number of women who manage to have a career in these fields.
We must also insist that the cost is borne wholly or largely by the manufacturer, as stipulated in the common position.
Mr Prodi secured positive comments for a proposal which would otherwise have been met with criticism, for the new draft regulation presents as progress the fact that it will now be possible to grant right of access to documents in the Commission' s possession. There follows, however, a long, long list of exceptions, and there is legal entitlement to confidentiality in regard to those exceptions.
This is clearly a problem for all EU coastlines which will require imaginative solutions.
Indeed, enlargement, which will be with us for our five years in office and beyond - I am referring to the aspirations of applicant countries - must hinge on concrete, objective criteria, and also on reassuring public opinion in the countries involved and, to an even greater degree, public opinion in our own Member States.
An unduly ambitious extension to the agenda at the present time would risk delaying the enlargement process.
We are sufficiently responsible to realise that we should only include those which we will be able to manage during the term of our Presidency and - we should always be aware of this - within governments' ability to act and within the scope of the Council.
As the author is not present, Question No 32 lapses.
The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
Every country within the EU now has rules governing the scrapping of cars.
The intention is clear: targeted projects are to be developed at transnational level, projects which are based on the employment policy guidelines of employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities.
First of all, I think I should repeat some of the basic facts which Mr Florenz and others have already mentioned.
More or less each of the 50 states in the US has two elected positions in the United States Senate, regardless of its population.
It is a fact that these substances are now being discovered. There are increased concentrations of them in both people and the environment.
Whose turn is next?
Firstly, fiscal provisions of an indirect nature and recently, thanks to Commissioner Monti, there have been direct provisions, the code of good conduct in particular.
There are also courts in Karlsruhe, London, Lisbon, Dublin and Edinburgh.
In the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach in Austria.
However, this Parliament would not be fulfilling its role as a supranational European institution if it did not consider the political design of the Union.
They are trading this in for a head of government' s position and for membership of a government.
What you just said is absolutely true: people want more engaged democracy.
This will contribute hugely towards re-establishing the confidence of the European citizens in this institution.
We want more than that, however.
Mr President, when it comes to putting its own house in order, the European Commission is in a Catch-22 situation.
Subject: Greek action plan for employment According to the findings of the evaluation of Action Plans for Employment, Greece and Italy are the main targets for criticism from the Commission for not properly carrying out employment support measures and policies.
Over the coming years, faced with the challenges of globalisation and eastward enlargement, Europe will, more than ever before, require appropriate detailed guidance on how to plan and revitalise its economy.
It is our responsibility as a parliament, particularly as the democratically elected voice of the European Union, to comment on current political developments in Austria which are in conflict with the policies of this parliament.
Under this umbrella, each Member State is to submit proposals in the form of a Community initiative programme for that particular country.
To bind manufacturers by means of a liability which can extend very far back in time ill accords with a flexible market economy designed to promote development.
Rather than banning flags of convenience, which would violate the right of every sovereign state to have a merchant fleet, under the 1995 EU directive on port state control, national maritime authorities must impose more effective sanctions on flag states which fail to carry out their international treaty obligations.
Unfortunately, very little.
For that reason, we shall vote against both these proposals.
Madam President, I hope that it is a good omen that there are still a few i's left for me to dot.
This, indeed, is the purpose of the sixth Steel Aid Code.
A great deal of money for culture is also set aside in the Structural Funds, and this is something which we should definitely consider and bear in mind.
Subsidies, monopolies and barriers to competition are still impeding markets and development alike.
However, it was withdrawn from the Committee on Budgets last night without being discussed or voted on.
There are doubts in my Group and doubts also persist in this House, for example, about something which should be good news: the incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the Community framework.
The objections of the industry in this matter are certainly not without foundation.
Mr President, first of all, congratulations to Michiel van Hulten for his first report.
The costs will not disappear. Nor will the waste disappear.
These stipulate that state aid can only be awarded to the steel industry in particular, precisely-defined cases i.e. those involving aid for research and development, aid for environmental protection, social security to ease the closure of steelworks and aid to help non-competitive enterprises cease trading altogether.
In principle, I believe that in many cases where transport is concerned we should be working towards increased flexibility and country-specific rules.
Now to the implementation of INTERREG, a subject mentioned by many of you, and the potential eligibility under strand A, 'cross-border cooperation' , of schemes in the Adriatic, on behalf of Sicily or for the most remote regions, the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, understands your concerns and takes note of your requests on these various points.
The world' s currency dealing centres will hardly agree to the tax revenue being used, for example, for a variety of well-meaning, UN-backed purposes throughout the world without a considerable amount of the revenue remaining with them.
On this point I will give my opinion on something which Mr Karas said.
That could convince people that Europe, in its governance, is not something run exclusively from Brussels, which concentrates and soaks up more powers, more decisions, more authority.
If you cannot tell us for this year, then last year and the year before.
We hope that the Commission will want to look into this and acknowledge Parliament' s position in practical terms, and not just with a formal tribute.
Resumption of the session
None of us wants South American type favelas in Europe.
Even if we hear nothing else, we know that is going in the right direction in terms of the reforms that we want to see.
Therefore, in future, prior approval should take place in a targeted manner, that is, only in cases of uncertainty or risk.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Langen - although he is not actually here - for the work he has done to carry through the programme both in Parliament and in the Council.
It must also be possible to a considerable extent for social measures to receive support under INTERREG III.
The fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is very much in agreement with your report is clearly demonstrated by the fact that only one amendment has been presented during this procedure.
I therefore think it is crucial for the environment that the ban on using poisonous heavy metals should be fully implemented and that we should not reduce manufacturers' liability.
URBAN is designed to find solutions to urban decay, and this is something of great concern to the elderly and therefore of great concern to the Pensioners' Party.
Quite probably, our points of view and our positions will not always be the same. There will probably be differences of opinion, that would be only normal.
I want to underline that point.
At the IGC, we would also need a debate on the possible divisions of the Treaties into two - into a policy area and an area on the Constitution.
Because, if this is not the case, we will be faced with the paradox that the Commission itself will introduce elements of unfair competition into the functioning of the European internal market.
Mr President, from this year until the year 2006 around EUR 200 billion is available for the Structural Funds, but only 5¾ % is set aside for the Community initiatives, INTERREG, LEADER, URBAN and EQUAL.
It has been shown, as we have been claiming since 1995, that this move is appalling, and, if Portugal and France wish to reach an agreement, that is fine by us, but these anchovies should be fished in Portuguese fishing grounds and not in the Bay of Biscay.
One of the reasons why it has been so successful is that the basic concept of the LEADER programmes aroused substantial interest in activities amongst the population concerned.
We are prepared to consider re-weighting the votes in the Council of Ministers, provided that the larger Member States are willing to agree to every Member State having a full and equal Member of the Commission.
I liked what Mr Seixas da Costa said about Father Christmas.
I think it is a first-class report which will, for the most part, be supported by my group.
Firstly, however, I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Langen, for the truly excellent work he has done on this report.
Granting funds without an economy that can stand on its own two feet is like carrying water to fill up a dry well: there will be enough to drink for a while, but tomorrow the well will be dry again.
Our understanding springs from the knowledge that our history of the recent past has bequeathed to us a political responsibility of special importance in the present.
His behaviour towards Prime Minister Ehud Barak was plainly insulting.
For this reason, the draft reform, which has been drawn up by the rapporteur, Vice-President Marinho, is to be welcomed.
Secondly, we said, in very specific terms, that we will work closely with all Member States in examining the situation as it develops in Austria.
He said that there would always be unanimity on social questions but, in the Commission' s draft, plans are quite explicitly being made for majority decision-making on issues relating to social security and on taxes connected with the internal market. This means that it will be possible for major parts of the social systems in the Member States to be changed by a majority in Brussels, even if a unanimous French National Assembly, a British House of Commons and a Dutch Lower House should be against this.
I have asked all the Commissioners - and I shall ask them once again in a still more analytical way - to pinpoint all the activities that we can forgo.
What we need are visible rights for each and every citizen; the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be made legally binding for all the citizens of the Union.
We shall obtain the very opposite of what we want.
Mr President, when the Alliance intervened in Kosovo its objective was to re-establish conditions in this province which would enable those who wished to do so to stay there or return, with respect for their own heritage and their own culture.
This time, however, it is true.
I am speaking for the first time in this plenary part-session, so this is quite exciting for me, a little like first love, although that did last longer than two minutes.
Finally, under point 20 the motion for a resolution contains seven specific proposals for amendments to the guidelines.
This is what our European 'Culture 2000' programme offers.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I am not sure which to go by: the strategic objectives for 2000 to 2005 or your speech for 2000 to 2010?
Could you please make sure that French-speaking Members of this House know that the word entreprises is not correct.
Consequently, I have tabled some amendments to Mr Koch' s intrinsically excellent report, which have been adopted by our committee.
There is currently a great deal of work under way in terms of reform and this must be the priority for the moment to allow consolidation and strengthening of the EU institutions.
The Commission can only collate and analyse the data provided by the Member States.
This is very good, and we are pleased to see it.
The Parliament, the Council presidency and the Commission are pulling in the same direction for a wider agenda.
Agenda
However, I would remind him that, during his inaugural debate, he described the Commission as a European government.
I should also like to stress the need to maintain a flexible approach to recycling, reuse and incineration, as far as the new particularly light materials are concerned which make it possible to reduce vehicle consumption and therefore emissions.
I am surprised it has even been made, because we came to an agreement following an exchange in the Conference of Presidents.
This, unfortunately, is not the case in Ireland.
The nations, regions, towns and communities of Europe will be preserved.
What it comes down to is the competitiveness of the European economy on the world market and the existence of thousands of jobs in the processing industry and offshore fishing.
I do not think so.
Particular attention is also paid to the dissemination of results and learning from each other by identifying best practice, with special emphasis on mainstreaming.
We would have preferred to have had greater clarification of the agenda and more guarantees on the method before giving our opinion, and frankly, we did not appreciate the discourtesy the Portuguese Presidency showed towards the European Parliament by scheduling the start of the Intergovernmental Conference for Saint Valentine' s day, the first day of the Strasbourg part-session.
I hope that we do not go on into the evening session in any event.
Why should it be impracticable, and it can be differentiated, to impose this tax on spot foreign exchange transactions, all the so-called cash transactions, currency futures and options?
Therefore, I do not believe I need to restate the number of factors which demand this investment in urban areas, factors which are on the agenda, and I would like to say to the Commissioner that we hope he will be sensitive in this respect.
Finally, the Commission cannot approve Amendments Nos 1 and 33 for reasons to do with legal clarity; nor Amendment No 19, which the Commission considers to be unnecessary at this stage.
We also welcome the recognition of the need for evaluation and the dissemination of best practice for the tightening up of the transnational level.
We must reject what is unacceptable, as our constituents demand.
Finally, in conclusion, I would like to express my regret at the low level of funding allocated to strand C, for interregional cooperation, even though the added value this offers the Community is undeniable.
We have made many promises in this regard, but I believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread.
It is therefore inconsistent to open accession negotiations with 13 countries while contemplating a minimal reform.
The Council' s common position was to say that car manufacturers should bear all, or a significant part, of the costs of recovery and recycling.
These are two important questions, and it is good that I should be given the opportunity to clarify them.
I want to repeat that honourable Members, like the honourable Member who asked the question, who take a particular interest in this issue, will want to have a dialogue about it.
We wish to see its competences extended, especially within Chapter IV of the Treaty of the European Community and with regard to Chapter VI of the Treaty on European Union and also a review of certain possible options, certain clear limitations of protection in these areas which are of extraordinary importance to our citizens.
Naturally, there are good, capable employees in the Commission, and they are in the majority. But we need radical reform.
Excessive in comparison with what iron rule, what criteria of efficiency?
With regard to the events of recent days, I would like to say - and I am saying this on the day, and the week, that the Intergovernmental Conference is starting - we have to place far more value and fundamental emphasis upon the charter on fundamental rights which, given what we have said about the Austrian crisis, I believe should be fully included in the Treaties.
We should be careful, though, Mr Prodi, because we had a crisis of confidence in the previous Commission and backed this Commission - at least a parliamentary majority backed this Commission - precisely because, first and foremost, the reform of the Commission would bring consolidation, a new identity and a new awareness of being guided by a firm hand.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to congratulate Mr Koch on his reports which, though technical, are nonetheless of very great significance for safety.
For me there is no question of allowing them to develop and to flourish without fighting with all our might.
So it is somewhat upsetting that there is not so much as a mention of this branch of the economy is this paper.
The interlinking of the EU institutions, the responsibilities of the Member States and the local and regional authorities is all very well.
While in theory this may meet the need for concentration and therefore the efficiency of interventions, we cannot help wondering whether the current situation of the Objective 1 zones allows, in practice, a policy of integrated interventions, for which an operational instrument to coordinate the appropriations is necessary.
However, I must make two essential points. These concern the simplification and application of Community law.
That is my intention and I would ask the House to give this report overwhelming support!
A technical improvement in the flexibility system will not be enough: we also have to raise the issue of developing our institutions for the countries in the vanguard as proposed by Jacques Delors, for example.
I have good reason for asking this.
In Europe, after the Amoco Cadiz, or the Urquiola on the Spanish coast, in 1976, or the Torrey Canyon, in the same year, or the many other cases there have been, we really began to legislate after 1994 and 1995, particularly in the last few years.
Yet this new governance simply means how the institutions and our public authorities operate, if we agree that the European Union must be a public authority.
The Council has not yet discussed the possibility of introducing a tax on movements of capital as Professor Tobin suggested.
You have said some powerful and worthwhile things yourself, but take care now that you do not dodge the crucial issues, the ones where it hurts!
They did not quite reach a conclusion on them but they certainly do not need nine months of further study.
Heaton-Harris (PPE-DE).
Finally, can I say that the Commission needs to work on its relationships with the public.
It is fundamentally essential therefore that the authority is not anonymous.
I therefore intend to amend the guidelines in order to incorporate a specific priority into the transnational strand B: 'integrated cooperation of maritime and island regions' , so as to cover, in what I think is an appropriate fashion the various opportunities for cooperation between these regions.
Three reasons and they are as follows: on account of the economic importance of third-country workers in the EU, in the interests of the competitiveness of enterprises and the proper functioning of the internal market.
I should like to welcome in particular the new LEADER+ programme because of its comprehensive nature.
We, as the Committee on Transport, are prepared to discuss the Commission communication on the question of safety at sea and, of course, we are likewise prepared to discuss, at a later date, the legal implications of this communication.
But we must look always to subsidiarity.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
The majority of the population of Europe live in cities, and their problems are among the most pressing within the context of regional policy and very complex matters in themselves.
The communication also states that the precautionary principle can be applied, provided there is a sufficient recognised minority of scientists.
Mr President, the draft resolution we are now discussing requires, precisely as before, that the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference should have a broad agenda involving radical reforms of the institutions.
I apologise to Mr Vitorino for this parliamentary discourtesy. I am sorry.
Although it may have been effective in certain areas - and I do not doubt the sincerity of Commissioner Barnier' s words - unfortunately it is still in its infancy when it comes to forestry.
He has led efforts to end provision for Austria' s Slovene-speaking minority and assistance to immigrants.
These are major disasters, we should have an instrument, we do not have it.
I therefore immediately give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
I should simply like to point out that this does not make very much sense at the present time because, as you know, it is still possible - and in fact will be until the end of 2001 - for LEADER II funds to be disbursed.
In many ways, the prerequisites differ from one Member State to another.
In the future, we must also develop indicators so that measures can be targeted at the right time at the right place.
There are concerns even within the Fifteen, concerns which may even surface again in the next decade.
I believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated.
For us new members, it was the first time, and this was a very interesting process.
We are in the process of looking into this question and assessing what knowledge we have today and what it is possible to do.
This is what we are today asking the Commissioner for.
The problem is just that this is not something the EU can introduce by means of legislative decrees and other supranational resolutions.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I heartily welcome the fact that you have said that you wish to improve structures, in the aim of improving the credibility of the authorities.
This infatuation with strand IIIC is all the stranger in that the rapporteur himself acknowledges in his explanatory statement that 'the draft guidelines do not provide any indication of possible fields of co-operation' (p.17) and that 'the responsibilities are diffuse and vague' (p.18).
Unfortunately I have to say that I am unable to support this proposed amendment because it in fact changes the substance of the outcome that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market resolved on unanimously, and I would like to stand by this outcome, which we arrived at together after lengthy discussions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my great interest in listening carefully to the comments, occasional criticisms and suggestions that some of you have just made in your speeches with reference to Mrs Schroedter' s report.
We should make a good deal of progress if the Commission were to adopt, as binding regulations, the ombudsman' s proposal of a code of conduct for good administrative practice.
The new Commission has already taken important steps to move away from the way it used to function.
Equally I understand the Commissioner failing to endorse such a tax, but I cannot understand why he failed to have the courage to welcome the opportunity to demonstrate the truth of his position by a study of the issue.
The first supporter of this reform should be Parliament itself, if it really wants to increase its role of interpreting the will of the Europeans and acquire the centrality which is part of a genuinely democratic and firmly integrated Union.
What happened to the person who was responsible for that miscalculation?
Europe is a community of law.
This combination of instruments enables us to implement a policy of rural development which today, furthermore, is one of the ways in which the common agricultural policy - in one of its dimensions - and regional policy also, have developed and changed.
I would cite, by way of example, the issue of job creation schemes, savings banks and regional banks, and Gütesiegel.
You say in your five-year programme that the people of the European Union rightly expect food standards to be higher and better foodstuffs legislation.
That is excellent news!
The tradition which has already been established by the previous programmes with the countries of the south, particularly the countries around the Mediterranean, must not be abandoned.
Wishing to save 60 000 jobs is, apparently, a sin against the market, but saving capital does not seem to present any problem for the advocates of the free market.
I want to emphasise four points.
Overlap between support schemes must be avoided and at the same time it must also be possible to exploit any synergistic effects.
I should further like to express major reservations with regard to the exaggerated tendency which, in the Commission communication with reference to INTERREG III and III B, involves associating environmental protection exclusively with the development of Natura 2000, which I think is often an excessively abstract means of safeguarding ecosystems, from which users are in danger of being excluded or severely restricted.
Mr President, a couple of years ago, the previous Commission tried once and for all to tackle rigid and obsolescent structures.
We need to match this vision with reality.
It is not to be brought in as a "sort of optional add-on" .
And no one can comprehend this attitude.
The Commission' s records leave a great deal to be desired.
The Commissioner has suggested three main chapters which need to be drafted and brought into line with our legislation, in which we can set standards.
That is a question of solidarity and progress.
Secondly: the introduction of a Europe-wide fight against organised crime, including by Europol and Eurojust.
In the meantime, it is nature that is taking the rap, as always.
I will not repeat which ones, because everyone knows.
That is a basic principle which we must uphold.
The implementation and operation of the guidelines cannot be left to the personal interpretation of one or other desk officer, either in the Commission or in the civil service.
Firstly, we are concerned with the proper use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
We must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes.
I understand that there is no argument about the fact that the Council declaration, on the next sitting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, is not going to include the declaration on the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, and that this declaration has been proposed for the plenary part-session in March, so that it may be delivered in a solemn and formal way.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, LEADER I was an outright success due, in particular, to the great flexibility of the administrative management between the Commission and the local operators.
These amendments deal with the social economy and the need to provide social risk capital and support financially local schemes to develop employment opportunities and strengthen social cohesion.
For as Mr Langen said just now, we certainly had a tough fight on our hands in the Conciliation Committee.
During the Portuguese Presidency, we will be continuing discussions on the CAP, by adapting some of the common market organisations with a view to developing the Union' s rural areas in an appropriate way and guaranteeing an improvement in farmers' incomes, paying particular attention to measures which could have an impact on small family-run farms.
This needs to be acknowledged as a tool and resource in addition to the EU criteria.
The same applies to European air traffic control.
I feel it is important to put special emphasis on trying out new ways to raise the profile of the natural and cultural heritage and to strengthen the economic environment, in order to promote employment.
Mr President, I would once again like to congratulate Mr Koch on his magnificent work on this other report, which in a way supplements the debate which we held in October on rail transport.
This proves that it is possible to go into issues in depth while respecting this mandate, by using the terms laid down in the mandate and all the openings which it offers.
There is another point I would just like to draw your attention to.
The federalists imagine that they are thereby going to create unity through constraint, but this is a totally superficial concept.
Mr President, I respond to an invitation yesterday afternoon by the President of the House to speak on behalf of my group on a matter referred to in the Minutes.
It is important that after the first step, which has already been taken, i.e. forming OLAF from UCLAF - an independent institution - we now take the second step and create a legal framework for OLAF, in order that OLAF too might operate within a secure legal framework.
As is so often the case, it merely provides yet another massive bureaucratic structure to control a problem, which will only serve to create more jobs for officials, and cost the motor industries and consumers a great deal of money.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Representatives of the Commission, it is a black day for Austria and for Europe.
Mrs Myller then asked me about the location of the Authority.
In addition, we have a flexible clause concerning the efficiency of the negotiations and of the institutions, which may be used for any purposes whatsoever. It is therefore ...
(Applause)
We already have an infrastructure.
The Commission can only endorse this request because of course it corresponds precisely to what the Commission itself had originally proposed.
Mr President, as a Member from one of the outermost regions, I must point out that this is a very special afternoon as far as regional policy is concerned, because of the debate on two Community initiatives, URBAN and INTERREG.
I myself have been involved in the committee of inquiry on transit traffic.
As I have already said, the Commission is aware of its own responsibilities and it is accordingly putting the finishing touches to an initial proposal for a scoreboard so that the institutions and other interested parties can assess the progress made in implementing the required measures and in complying with the deadlines set down in the Treaty of Amsterdam, in the Vienna action plan and in the conclusions of the Tampere European Council.
As the Committee on Equal Opportunities, we also stress the need to finance infrastructures that will facilitate professional activity by women, mainly by harmonising their professional and family commitments, and more generally infrastructures that promote solidarity between the generations, social solidarity.
One seems powerless in a dialogue of this kind, where the other party actually has to reach a unanimous decision.
We will examine all that material carefully before making a legislative proposal for a new regulation.
We need structural reforms in the European economy.
We know that some Member States are still wavering, for example, between rail and road for routes through vulnerable areas such as the Pyrenees, as in the Aspe valley.
May I also venture to raise the matter of peat?
You have not highlighted the ageing of our population which will fundamentally alter the structure of our society, not only economically but also in terms of public health.
We have to remedy that.
I wish insistently to remind the Council and, should it be necessary, Parliament, that we should not continue to allow a gap to develop between our rhetoric and what we are actually capable of doing.
We are extremely disappointed.
Arrested and released in Madrid, he is now being extradited after arrest in Lisbon.
I understand that Europe and the civilised world wants to have as little as possible to do with such a government.
In short, to give priority to older sub-standard ships over ships which meet all quality requirements.
As an example I would give the restructuring of ABB Alsthom Power. A sizeable delegation of employees of this firm from throughout Europe is visiting Strasbourg today.
This is because it is essential to achieve two things: the European model of multifunctionality in agriculture must be secured, and this must be done in a way which facilitates the liberalisation of world trade in agricultural products, mainly to the benefit of developing countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that first we should all congratulate ourselves on the procedure that has been adopted and which will lead us, after each of our respective political groups has rallied together and expressed its feelings, finally to produce a joint resolution.
The most startling aspect of her original report was that she wanted to limit aid to the small group of refugees covered by the Geneva Convention, that is to say so-called quota refugees or UN refugees.
Commissioners should not be considered senior officials but rather politicians in office.
We believe that justice should be done in this case, but this is not the most appropriate procedure.
Madam President, I reiterate my thanks to Parliament for its support and for, once again, having shown the importance it attaches to culture in the context of the Union.
The increased participation of our citizens is something I hope and pray for. I would like this participation to be as extensive and productive as possible and I undertake to work to ensure that in the course of the five years covered by the programme it becomes a tangible reality.
In terms of balance, or should I say imbalance, I must add that it is to be regretted that Europe is still playing a minor political role in resolving this conflict.
I therefore repeat the proposal that this oral question to the Commission and the Council should be retained so that we can find out, once and for all, the positions of these two bodies regarding the proposal which is relatively modest but which would give a clear message to public opinion, particularly after the tide of feeling generated by the failure of the Seattle Conference.
This is a perverse interpretation of ending discrimination.
In theory, we could have done so.
To conclude, the next five years will be crucial.
Even if the Commission is still reluctant to say so in too explicit a fashion, its periodic report demonstrates the urgent need to promote polycentric development of the Community area through the Union' s structural policies and within the scope of the approach initiated by the SEC.
The time has come, we feel, for in-depth consideration of how to put the Community system of jurisdiction in order and to guarantee a fitting quality of justice.
In saying all of this, I would like to make it clear that Europe nevertheless has one of the best food industries in the world and also one of the safest food control systems.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
Instead, my question concerns the interpretation in principle of Article 255 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Greece has been granted ECU 98 million. The contribution commitment is 80%, rising to an 85% contribution from the initiative for the island regions, especially the remote Greek islands, and a contribution by Greece of 15%.
The first concerns this Parliament.
For one thing is clear: even if we come to an excellent arrangement within the European Union, traffic does not stop at our borders, it goes beyond them.
Since we are recovering from a very complex crisis, we must try to enhance our institutions and give them substance.
This demand makes conciliation almost impossible and even affects the dignity of the parliamentary institution.
Europe will also be able to achieve a leading position in the industry that supplies equipment needed for the exploitation of renewable energy.
Secondly, the approval of investments - where the parameters are binding when drawing up action programmes on employment - to be made in individual countries via Community projects in the priority sectors of research, innovation and training.
In years past, the single market and the single currency have been the pivotal point of our actions, the mainstay of European life.
We now have a number of guidelines for using the precautionary principle, and we have increased support among our respective peoples for using it, something which is clearly established in the present communication.
First, streamlining.
We have established the single currency - which is extremely positive - and we are facing enlargement.
It is now a fact that in order to attain this goal, rural areas need to see the creation of new jobs, which are no longer solely connected with agriculture, in the traditional sense - although this sector is important for the protection of the environment and the preservation of biodiversity - but also, for instance, in rural tourism, sport and cultural activities, environmental projects, SMEs, services, and so on.
In general, the current guidelines cannot be considered as clear or transparent.
Firstly, there is the Commissioners' individual responsibility.
We are debating the planning phase and guidelines for the four Community initiatives without access to any substantive and complete appraisal of the previous period. This is not very good at all.
Africa is, for us, a worrying topic for discussion. We therefore have another duty at international level, which has already been proposed by the Commissioner responsible for trade: the undertaking to relaunch the Millennium Round and to take on some fundamental problems affecting the poorest countries, not just in terms of writing off debts, but also via the unilateral opening-up to trade with the poorest countries in the world, with a great deal of willingness on our part, which we had already proposed prior to Seattle but which we could not put into practice.
To remedy this, vigorous efforts are required.
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
Do you intend to press for a common policy for asylum and immigration?
There is no reason why, against this background, we should agree to grant discharge.
Mrs Wallström has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
It is my intention that this scoreboard should become an instrument providing political and strategic guidance to all the institutions, and that it should also be an instrument for public scrutiny.
In view of this growing interest, the Commission therefore considered that it would be useful to present a communication to set out its position on the use of the precautionary principle.
It is based on three strands. strand A organises cross-border cooperation between regional and local authorities in border regions, at both internal and external borders of the European Union, on the basis of joint cross-border development strategies which Member States' local and regional authorities are responsible for implementing. strand B governs transnational cooperation between national, regional and local authorities in various Member States or applicant countries regarding regional development, transport networks and the environment.
The government of the United States, or of Israel?
If you are able to match these aspirations with actions in the years ahead, you will be making an unprecedented contribution to the future of the European Union as a whole and, as we have heard today, you will enjoy widespread support in this European Parliament.
We all regret that the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) has not been able, in the required time, to carry out the amendment of the provisions necessary for the required harmonisation within the European Union.
However, if, on verifying the progress made during 1999, which is within the competence of this Parliament in accordance with the Treaty, we leave behind the stage of great declarations and look at the decisions actually taken and carried out, the scene looks considerably darker, Mr President.
It is therefore with some justification that competition policy is one of the most important policies.
That is absolutely absurd.
There need to be tough rules stating, among other things, what may be decentralised, what may be outsourced and what is independent.
At the moment the list is, as I say, a negative list and it is added to as required.
What I proposed to you, and what I still say, is that the Commission will make a statement, in the Council Decision, something like this:
You tell me that you, as the Commission, have made recommendations.
I will comment briefly on the 13 amendments tabled.
I also refer to my explanation of vote of 18 November 1999 which clarifies my attitude towards supranationalism and common defence.
Agenda
We cannot be content with a role backstage. We must be leading protagonists while staying off a collision course with the United States, as Minister Gama said.
Therefore, Madam President, I believe that it is our right and our obligation to ask the Austrians to reconsider and reflect, because this type of menace, which we have suffered before in Europe, may not only harm Austria, but it may also spread, and I say this bearing history in mind.
It is precisely with this in mind that I tabled some amendments which I consider to be of the utmost importance, and that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has subsequently taken up.
I will save a few seconds because I wanted to propose to the Council that we continue the debate at the next meeting of the Committee on Citizens' Rights and Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs.
The Commission is displaying intolerable inertia and unacceptable shortcomings.
One of the most common objections is that such a tax would be too complex, but this could be said of any tax. If this argument had been accepted in the past, then no taxes would ever have been created.
The detailed action plan on food safety in the White Paper sets a precise timetable for action over the next three years.
With particular reference now to the question of access by women to the opportunities which are created, I would like to say, first, that there is, via the Social Fund, an entire equal opportunities pillar which the Member States must implement, i.e. special policies for women which must use Social Fund resources.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I would like to offer a few explanations.
Nevertheless, Mr Alavanos, the Council is also aware that the total amount of resources made available to the appropriate international organisations in Kosovo does not match the desired amount, in terms of what the various Member States have been able to raise, and this has limited the real ability of these organisations to act on the ground.
It is true that economic aid is, in this respect, certainly an essential element to the scope of action afforded those people active at the grass roots level.
The maritime world has great potential.
I share the view expressed by Mrs Theato that it would not be acceptable in any way at all for us to seek to operate new arrangements without a change in the law.
Together we should work towards this goal in the interests of the citizens, and what I expect to come out of the Intergovernmental Conference is that the relevant Cologne decision will be revised here at the end of the year.
On Friday of this week we have one single item on the agenda.
Fourthly, a point which Mrs Hedkvist Petersen stressed just now, the promotion of an equal opportunities policy for women and young people.
But at the same time, one can clearly see that the upheaval caused by enlargement may lead to Community competences being limited and subsidiarity being extended.
There are too many rights, too many regulations and too little room for leadership.
I am therefore delighted to see the proposals of the European Commission.
I have for many years, in word and deed, been committed to the anti-fascist struggle and the struggles for equal rights and against xenophobia. However, recent events - firstly, what were really threats by the Council of Ministers, then Mr Prodi' s threats against the Austrian Commissioner and, finally, the present decision - are things I cannot support.
The measures eligible for funding listed in Annex II of strand A do also seem encouraging in this respect.
In return for this, however, we want early notification obligations to be discontinued, rather it should just be a matter of the employee taking the justification for the posting to the other Member State along with them, and this might take the form of the contract forming the basis for his/her posting.
We are the largest of all donors to the Palestinians.
The common position stipulates 2006.
It is downright scandalous what goes on!
Furthermore, the centralised European system, as we can see it developing today and as we can foresee it by extrapolation, erodes nations and, in eroding nations, erodes the national patriotism which forms the basis of our will to defend ourselves.
The Finnish Presidency only listened to minimalist governments and, unfortunately, turned a deaf ear to this Parliament.
The current notification instrument, ladies and gentlemen, no longer allows us to reach this objective because it does not guarantee that the Commission is properly informed about the most serious restrictions - I would remind you that, in 35 years, there have only been nine cases in which the Commission has decided on prohibition following notification in the absence of a complaint - nor does it guarantee transparency or provide real legal certainty for businesses which, in the majority of cases, receive a simple comfort letter.
This must be regulated during the IGC.
However, we in the Liberal Group welcome this because it means we are now settling down to business.
In addition to these events, I would like to remind Parliament of some items that were approved in 1999.
On the contrary, since it is certain that not all countries would accept it, we would open the way to speculation and fraud and that really would create volatility, instability, insecurity, opacity and unfair competition in the field of financial services operating on an international level.
The European Parliament was the first to speak up.
I would ask you once again to work on this.
Mr President of the Commission, it is the new millennium and you made no mention whatsoever of the audio-visual area of Europe.
Mr President, I am sure the Commission will be relieved to hear that the 97 discharge is unlikely to have the same impact as the 96 discharge which, as you are all so very well aware, led to the forced resignation of the Santer Commission.
We have so many coordinators, who, in turn, are responsible to so many employers, that we will soon have to employ a coordinator for the coordinators.
Madam President, we the Belgian Christian Democrats are concerned as, fortunately, are a great many other Members too.
I would just like to make a few comments, after reading the draft opinion and after listening to the speakers on behalf of the various groups.
They have either been accepted or transposed with no change in the substance, or they have been rejected because the corresponding European arrangements have not been included, for example a system of penalties for violations of the rules or a complex classification structure for related groups of questions.
The Court also stated that the principle of relative stability had not been violated since the anchovy quota allocated to Spain in zone VIII had been maintained at 90% and France' s at 10%.
Mrs Jackson has focused on the fact that there are 24 new and 20 amending pieces of legislation and asks whether this compounds over-regulation.
I cannot fully grasp the underlying rationale.
This will not help us to reform the European institutions whilst fully respecting democratic institutions.
It forms a sound basis for discussion and is to be welcomed in this sense.
Is it not our responsibility to give thought to how we should tackle this brand of politics?
A number of codes have since been introduced.
Even in Tampere, we were of the opinion that Eurodac was becoming a reality.
We should approve this report because it highlights the need to maintain efficient legal control over our institutions, by protecting the Union' s financial system with a substantive and procedural European law which is capable of maintaining the credibility of the Community' s economic life.
In addition to the scoreboard, I would like to anticipate the following initiatives that the Commission intends to present during 2000 - and I would like to emphasise that I am delighted the Portuguese Presidency is treating progress in the area of freedom, security and justice as a priority in its work programme.
Man and culture are priorities, and culture can result in economic growth.
By allowing them to develop tailor-made plans for the relevant regions and, if necessary, tying this in with financial aid, a higher return can be achieved.
With the planned accession of a large number of these countries in the foreseeable future, it is a matter of urgency to review the current structural policy. I would like to take this opportunity to follow the example of others and call on the Commission to submit proposals for reform sooner rather than later.
We support these critical remarks, and I must therefore state that it would seem quite absurd, against this background, to vote in favour of approving the accounts.
The ÖVP (Austrian People's Party), whose presence at European level we have also come to take for granted, is daring to attempt a coalition for the sake of governability in Austria.
It is unfortunate that the convention for protecting the Union' s financial interests has been put into effect in so few Member States.
No tanker or freighter fit only for the scrap heap must ever put into any harbour within the European Union again. All those involved, including the transport agent, are responsible for any ensuing damage, and these individuals are to provide satisfactory assurances.
The groups are: the efficiency of the rules, the risk of renationalisation, consistent application of the rules and legal certainty. I will take these very quickly one at a time.
This is what we wish to do: maintain our role as a supranational structure, maintain the role conferred on us by the Treaties, but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts.
Finally, I consider it a very positive sign that you speak so often about the civil society, although, unfortunately, this is another contradiction.
The centralised ex ante approval system was doubtlessly originally designed to ensure carefulness but, over the years, it has had the perverse effect of reducing the extent to which managers feel responsible for their decisions.
In response to this the Commission has entered into various commitments and has certainly adopted many reform measures.
Members of this House should not in these circumstances be in the least surprised that in these discussions, people in Scotland and other such countries are asking whether enlargement should not also take the form of admitting new Member States from within existing ones.
In other words, it is positive discrimination.
The introduction to this statement acknowledges under the quality of life section that it is important.
The only substantial question that has arisen is the legislative basis.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Council Presidency' s account has given me the distinct impression that we are approaching this Intergovernmental Conference with well-considered ideas and a high degree of openness.
Of course it is as you say.
Mind you, even the Resolution of the Finnish Council Presidency in June was not the best result that could have been done achieved.
As far as the budget is concerned, as already stated, URBAN is there to support and complement national policy.
This Parliament anxiously awaits this complete reform programme.
These are my three questions.
Because what is it that unites us in Europe? Surely it is the values and principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, more than anything.
Indeed, I am forced to observe that this was not the case when the Commission drew up its communication, published on 13 October last year.
However, these isolated elements which make sense and for which we voted, in no way remedy the Eurofederalist philosophy which characterises the Community initiatives, particularly INTERREG.
The proposals in Mrs Theato' s report seek to encourage the Commission to present a substantive legislative measure on the protection, under criminal law, of our financial interests, which would criminalise certain activity, specifically fraud against the Community budget. These proposals represent a serious attempt to establish a new and ever more urgently-needed uniform criminal law for the whole Community.
Therefore, apart from the apology which Mr Schüssel has made, offering us all kinds of guarantees, as did Chamberlain and Daladier in 1938 in Munich, I would like to know whether the PPE intends to implement measures in relation to the Austrian People' s Party, if it goes ahead with this mad project.
I am grateful for the fact that the Commission has adopted an action plan.
Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a report, which, on reading it, gives the impression of simply confirming and accepting the Council' s draft decision.
But the idea of a European Public Prosecutor, on the other hand, aims in the long term to confine the national states to a subordinate role in these matters.
Amendments Nos 4, 11, 12, 13, 28, 30, 32, 37, 42 and 48 concern the phasing-out of heavy metals.
When it comes to medical checks and so on, I do not have all the information needed to give a proper answer.
The aim of this convention, which came into force on 24 October 1996, is precisely to achieve and maintain a high standard of nuclear safety at world level by means of national measures and through international cooperation.
In the future it will be possible to have programmes not only in the individual zones eligible for structural aid but in all the regions of the EU.
My concern is, if I have understood Mr Seixas da Costa correctly on the interesting points he made as regards transparency and the IGC, whether the Portuguese Presidency will take on the commitment to tackle the issue of widening the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Jacques Delors was accustomed to saying that the market was short-sighted and hence the political need to reduce disparities.
The promotion of scientific development and new technologies and access for all to these technologies will not be provided by the market or competition. The latter will also not ensure the social proximity and effectiveness of the main community services of health, education, transport, communications, water and whatever else.
We welcome the fact that Europol has finally been able to start work.
Construction of this type of ship was halted at the time because the risk of rusting was especially high.
I would especially draw your attention to Amendment No 45, in which a choice is made in favour of laying the cost of disassembly and recycling at the door of the manufacturer, for new cars at any rate.
Where is the beef?
Mr President, my starting point is the EQUAL report and equality between men and women, although I must admit that it is sometimes hard to talk about this issue, which has a feeling of déjà vu about it when you are my age, in any case.
It was only last year that the Treaty was amended to give Parliament a much greater role in the legislative process.
The basic objectives of an EU-wide employment policy are laid down in the guidelines and include employability, entrepreneurship and adaptability.
Not to save jobs.
So this means that we are developing a new sector and new employment and doing the environment a huge favour into the bargain.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
It therefore makes no sense to maintain that legal insecurity.
I hope that in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency it will be possible to achieve a clear spirit of interinstitutional cooperation, which is also the political message of Tampere, and that this spirit of interinstitutional cooperation will be carried forward by subsequent presidencies.
Question No 36 by (H-0782/99):
It is the Member States, however, who will have to implement this directive, and let us beware of going into too much detail because the industrial traditions, the demolition and crushing sectors vary according to whether you are in Italy or in Finland.
We must preserve this law and peace in the European Union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world.
Like yourself, he promised "less and better" , but Mr Santer finished up by having delivered "much more and much worse" , and I do not believe that you, either, can deliver the goods you promise.
The economic and social damage, which we have spoken about today, in terms of the loss of jobs and fishing and tourist resources, is so great that they fully justify decisive and thorough action on the part of the Community institutions.
Obviously, I cannot adopt a stance on this special case and on the particular product which has been mentioned here, but I shall go directly back and see what I can obtain in the way of information about this particular case.
When there are major set-piece debates scheduled between this House and the European Commission in the future, we should clear all of our lines on what are our mutual expectations at least one full working month in advance.
Yet the trade in used car parts is important, especially for those who collect and renovate older vehicles.
We do not want to make the conditions of competition worse for some countries unilaterally and improve them for countries such as Austria or other transit countries.
Madam President, the Commission is today presenting its strategic objectives for 2000-2005. These are contained in an extremely general document in which all the problems have been glossed over to prevent any conflict.
Madam President, I strongly refute any statement, demonstration or feeling of xenophobia or racism.
Plus, this branch of the economy is one of the few sectors in which Europe has fully integrated powers to decide and act, which is why we expect to be given a right of codecision here too.
So, judicially, something needs to be done.
Last November, the Commission tabled a proposal for an anti-racism directive.
He spoke of the task of not isolating Member States but of doing everything to unite them in common European values.
We must work to ensure that, in this province and indeed throughout the Balkans generally, the rule of shopkeepers follows the rule of the warlords.
Fourth observation: the European Observatory and the possible use of a technical assistance office.
The Commission accepted five of the proposed amendments including the budgetary allocation and I thank the Commission for their continued support on the budget during the conciliation procedure as what the Council had proposed was unacceptable.
Even today, surely it is high time for the Party of European Socialists to break their fraternal links with China' s Communist Party.
It must be adhered to in the interests of the fast, effective work of the conference, prior to enlargement.
This has given rise to the proposals we are making to at least extend the regions eligible to include the NUTS III Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta and to include all the regions of the Adriatic which share a frontier with Balkan regions.
I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, although there has indeed been an economic disaster, the real ecological catastrophes are still to come.
Not a single piece of information, nor a single consultation, has been addressed to Parliament during this process; neither on the association of the United Kingdom, nor on the incorporation of Greece, nor on the negotiations with Norway and Iceland.
Madam President, I would simply like to stress the value of the attitude that the leader of our group, Francis Wurtz, reminded us of just now.
In those circumstances it would be silly not to widen the agenda.
It is important for there to be coordination between LEADER+ and the other support initiatives in the European Union, but coordination with other national support schemes is also just as important.
And who is not in favour of security, freedom and justice?
All these firms have gone ahead with job cuts and even redundancies.
I want to congratulate him, sadly in his absence, for the thorough and rigorous way in which he has undertaken the preparation of his report - and also for putting up with my being such a thorn in his side!
What is important, however, is that they have begun.
In one of the worst accidents to have occurred recently, the goods being transported were not dangerous in themselves.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which I have the opportunity to propose to you today is an opinion on the Commission' s Annual Report on the state aid in force within the European Union and for which the Community is authorised under Articles 87, 88 and 89 of the Treaties.
This danger does not concern Austria, it concerns Europe.
Reform of European competition policy
Similarly, the idea that the euro has fostered a consensus on wage moderation is not really borne out by the repeated nervous orders issued by the European Central Bank to the trade unions which are deemed to be too demanding.
Its purpose is to combat discrimination in the workplace.
It is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid for research, development, environmental protection and cases of company closure.
A final amendment is intended to ensure that tanks and tankers put into service between 1 January 1997 and the entry into force of this directive may continue to be used provided that they have been constructed and maintained in accordance with it.
How many more seabirds are to die before shipping companies end the practice of cleaning their tanks at sea which, as our resolution points out, causes far more pollution than any Erika-type disaster?
The proposed system will improve the protection of competition, primarily because it will allow the Commission to concentrate its action on the most serious restrictions, also because it will involve national and competition authorities to a greater degree in stamping out infringements, and lastly in that it will allow victims of infringements to have direct recourse to national judges, whose mission is to protect the rights of individuals.
The next item is questions to the Council (B5-0040/99) and the Commission (B5-0041/99), on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the 1999 annual debate on the area of freedom, security and justice (Article 39 of the TEU).
I say that in all earnestness and I have chosen my words carefully.
The previous speaker already said something about this.
We can do so without going off at other tangents. I respect you as a serious Commissioner who wants to take his work seriously.
The existing monitoring committee can only monitor the independence of the Director of the agency.
So tomorrow, if we vote against some amendments or against specific paragraphs, this is certainly not on account of their content but rather to render your report as a whole more readable.
Article 280 of the Treaty allows the Council to pinpoint the appropriate instruments to curb fraud.
This is why I would ask you to consider the English version as the original version.
Finally, the positive effects on national administrations of the system of management of the Structural Funds, the motives of officials in managing these funds, even if it is occasionally complicated, and the importance of once again making improvements to the procedures for the evaluation, follow-up and supervision of the Commission.
Another point: the coordination between INTERREG, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
The European Parliament and the Union' s governments must politically isolate a government that includes admirers of Nazism and advocates of xenophobia.
Rather than go back over the areas that have already been covered I would like to deal with one specific topic: the question of drugs and how we tackle the pervasiveness of the drug culture in our societies.
We are concerned here with the harmonisation of examination requirements but also, in fact, with minimum requirements.
That is why, today, we must be understanding alchemists, concerned for our environment.
In spite of the fact that this Community initiative is aimed at rural development, it does not address the issues of agriculture and agricultural production in a consistent way, and this is unacceptable.
This is not a straightforward issue and calls for a much more wide-ranging analysis, but I shall restrict myself to raising only a few points, in order to make people more aware, if possible, of what we are talking about.
This is a problem of compatibility between our directives on end-of-life vehicles and the former directives, including the one on auto-oil, which we voted on a few years ago.
I am referring to the sixteenth century when the discovery of America turned everything upside down.
As a matter of urgency, therefore, we must restore, within the framework of a supplementary budget, the budget line which was allocated to us for natural disasters.
At the same time, however, we see from the van Hulten report under discussion today that the European Public Prosecutor should in turn be supervised by a European Union court.
What we are discussing here is the fact that close on ten million cars are scrapped every year in the European Union, resulting in approximately as many millions of tons of waste.
This is true, if we think of Russia' s plans in the thirties, but at the start of your mandate, a few months ago, you yourself announced at the Conference of Presidents that you would, however, be presenting a legislative programme, or rather, the major policy lines of the European government of which you are head and in the running of which we are engaged today.
In fact, over the last decade, the temperature has risen more than in the rest of the century.
Madam President, I absolutely agree with the rapporteur' s analysis and I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mr Gargani, for his praiseworthy work in a mediation process that was also, considerably difficult.
It must clearly be accepted that the people should be free to make their decisions at the level which best combines the objective conditions of an immediate, fair and transparent democratic debate, namely at national level in the main.
We consider the matter to be important enough for the Commission to react swiftly to this situation, and I think that Parliament must make its position clear and vote on a resolution on the subject.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the presentation of, and the first ever debate on, the Commission' s programme for government - the word President Prodi is so fond of; as I am -for the whole legislature.
We have more confidence in Eurojust, where prosecutors from the individual nations cooperate.
Providing aid rapidly, when it is needed, saves human lives; in many cases providing it late is worse than not providing it at all.
At this time when we are voting on a joint resolution against the inclusion of neo-Nazis in the government of a European Union Member State, I must express my regrets regarding a compromise text which is particularly lacking in backbone.
When I speak about external aid, my thoughts immediately turn to the Balkans. There is cause for hope thanks to the commitment of our workers on the ground, an extraordinary commitment given our organisational problems.
This would be to the considerable disadvantage of the internal market, regardless of the fact that the steel industry has undergone consolidation in the past few years.
A month ago, the Commission submitted a proposal on equal treatment in employment, as prescribed in the Treaty, in order to implement Article 13.
It is, moreover, also accepted as an important and effective tool.
In consequence, I seek some small adjustments to the guidelines to provide a little more flexibility and to accommodate the ways in which the interests of maritime areas can fall between strand A and strand B. These adjustments include clarifying the possibilities for cooperation between maritime areas and permitting greater development of practical and visible projects, particularly those of an infrastructural kind.
Ensure too, that training becomes a management tool.
The draft resolution rightly recalls the Commission's accountability to this Parliament.
We wonder if this is actually feeding the flames of xenophobia and the parties and people that support it.
We have seen the NOW project helping 70 women to return to work in Suffolk, many of whom were able to come and share the results of their experience directly with us at the European Parliament in Brussels.
Mr President, I also rise on a point of order.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your reply, although I regret the fact that this working group has taken so long to meet, since this matter is of the greatest importance.
For all programmes submitted before 30 April of this year it will be possible to backdate the beginning of the period of eligibility to 1 January.
We at the European Parliament cannot be a credible counterpart to this reformed Commission as long as we do not search our hearts and put our own House in order as well.
In addition to that, the food safety authority will have a board.
I think there are some gaps in what they have put forward.
(Parliament gave its assent) President.
Could I highlight a few points which have also been touched upon by the Commissioner?
Does the presidency intend to do anything about this?
That is to say that experts are ever more convinced that climate change and human activities, in general terms, are linked to the increase seen in natural disasters in recent years.
However, increasing flexibility can or quickly threatens to turn into intergovernmentalisation.
This is something I would stress, particularly with my being an MEP for one of the major Member States.
As part of our proposals in this area - which I expect to bring forward at the end of this year - I will be examining whether additional powers in addition to infringement procedures need to be given to the Commission.
I wish that the Chinese authorities had responded consistently and positively to that overture from the Dalai Lama.
Do not continue in this vein!
Let me reiterate the comment which Doris Pack has just made and stress that we, the Members of the European Parliament, must fulfil our own obligations in this regard, while ensuring, of course, that we are not the only ones to do so.
the oral question (B5-0005/2000) by Mr Désir and others, to the Commission, on the Commission position on the idea of a capital tax.
In order to make these reforms, however, and in order to make progress with the 2001 legislative programme, we must be very sure, not only of the strengths of the reformer himself, but also of the opinions of others.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti, and also the other quaestors for your effort to achieve this.
It would be shameful to say the least if the European Parliament were to draw back from the professions the governments of the 14 Member States and the European Commission have been making concerning manufacturer responsibility and environmental protection!
Thank you, Mr Wurtz.
For similar reasons, we have voted in favour of paragraph 14 which, with the oral amendment, dealt with certain very justifiable concerns about the question of subsidiarity, since political rights, not just voting in local elections, but political rights in general terms, form part of the sovereignty of Member States.
After all, the knowledge that economic development alone does not help to combat unemployment substantiates the fact than an increase of at least 3% in gross domestic product is needed to create any additional jobs at all.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, the recent peace talks begun in the USA between Israel and Syria mark a turning point in the history of the Middle East. It has taken fifty years to reach this point, which will involve some particularly difficult negotiations.
Why have the staircases not been improved since my accident?
But the report before the House tonight is a prime example of how, if we are not very careful, we can produce very grandiose-sounding ideas that lack the substance to make them relevant to the people who benefit directly from them.
Such transactions, according to the argument, bear very little relation to fundamental economic variables. This has also just been underlined by Mr Désir.
The most important subject for discussion in this context is the climate.
The programme has been extremely successful in Ireland, as indeed I know it has been successful in other countries.
It may well be easy enough to change the Commission' s organisation chart but it is a different matter when it comes to the legal texts, particularly those relating to budgetary discipline.
I want to know whether one can raise an objection of that kind to what is merely a report, not a legislative proposal, and whether that is something I can competently do on Thursday.
The European Council in Helsinki itself approved enlargement involving 13 new Member States.
Nevertheless, these same institutions showed no reluctance to accept Turkey as a candidate for membership of the European Union, despite its well-known human rights violations.
I am sure that he is aware of the very serious threat to the European model which is based on family farming, mainly those farmers involved in beef and sheepmeat production who are now expected to sell their produce at or below production costs.
The level of racism in our society is terrifying.
And so the moderate sum of 167 million will stand until 2004.
We are very positive about the many improvements which have been made: no more mega-projects, room for cultural networks, and sufficient attention to promoting reading, translating and translation companies.
It was only after they unsuccessfully solicited the FPÖ to tolerate a minority government and, obviously in vain, offered the Freedom Party ministerial posts, that the SPÖ begin its massive campaign against Haider.
This assistance has delivered benefits in all sectors, in particular agriculture, infrastructure development, the private economy and the strengthening of institutions.
Having said this, the EU' s responsibility, which is both yours and ours, is to try and move beyond the provisional nature of Resolution 1244 and devise a future scenario for the whole region.
The European Union is the single largest contributor, with 80 million pounds to the International Fund for Ireland.
Finally, if the Commission and the relevant Councils of Ministers permit, I should like to stress that the Members of the European Parliament should be given more information on the procedures relating to the implementation of the INTERREG projects and, beyond that, of similar initiatives.
But the discussion needs to begin and we are therefore calling on the IGC to start discussions.
It is regrettable that we do not have any instrument with which to give assistance in situations like this.
Genuine transparency of the institutions' workings and the way they are presented throughout Europe is an extremely important issue and one which, in my opinion, needs to be studied again, particularly in the context of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
The virtually systematic conditions of detention and the criminalisation of asylum-seekers are no longer acceptable.
It knows the ins and outs of aid provision better than any local organisation or authority.
It is, of course, only in this way that we can create a future for the car industry.
That is why I urge you to vote against Amendments Nos 38 and 45.
If competition policy is to be made subordinate to the aims of social and environmental policy, real efficiency and economic growth will remain just a dream.
I agree with every word the Commissioner said in her remarks, but the question is, how long will it take to ensure that measures are introduced to deal with the problem in the way she proposes?
The Commission' s proposal, however, does not take account of all the facts, such as the cold climate that prevails in the northern regions.
What good are the current way in which we negotiate and the way in which the World Trade Organisation works, if they cause trade to increase on the one hand, but on the other, they create problems and above all cause this gulf between rich and poor countries to grow?
What steps will the Commission take to prevent nuclear accidents and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in a country that wishes to join the EU but spends enormous amounts on nuclear programmes while receiving financial aid from the EU budget?
This is a false debate whose aim is purely political, and has no basis or technical viability.
We note, first of all, that the committee considers the data, as presented in the Commission' s annual report, to be in too aggregated a form to enable an in-depth evaluation of state aid policy which is simultaneously legitimate, sensitive to national interests and extensive in terms of compliance with the rules of competition, pursuant to the actual terms of the Treaty.
The Commission?
The investment needs to be visionary.
However, the past year was positively marked by some momentous decisions, such as the decision to begin implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam, the decision to incorporate the Schengen Agreement into the Community pillar, and the decision of the Cologne Council to create a Charter of Fundamental Rights and the decision of the Extraordinary European Council in Tampere to bind the Member States to common directions, priorities and goals with a view to creating a common area of freedom, security and justice.
Some other points of agreement highlighted in Mrs McCarthy' s report, the effectiveness of this instrument through the concentration of funding and a critical mass for intervention, the horizontal operation which we think more conducive to disseminating results and increasing the exchange of experience and good practice and, finally, the increasing role of local authorities in the planning and management of the programmes, on the basis of a real partnership.
These are a few introductory remarks concerning the key amendments.
I have to say, like motherhood, although we all support it, sometimes we do very little substantially and concretely to help the mothers or the people engaged in energy-saving.
This sounds perfectly feasible. We shall therefore see if we can extend the urgent debate by a half hour, considering the withdrawal of Mrs Cederschiöld' s report.
Certainly not a fair one! There are always people who are in a position to reject everything and there we are on the other side, begging for a little more money for culture.
In recent times, Africa has raised hopes and has received offers of help, but nothing tangible has yet been achieved. In recent years in Africa, we have not seen a shift from totalitarian regimes to democracy, but quite the contrary - a shift from democracy to totalitarian regimes.
Madam President, to begin with, I would like to make one thing abundantly clear: Austria is not in danger of experiencing a resurgence of a one-party system or of a totalitarian system of right-wing persuasion.
Mr President, I would like to refer, firstly and above all, to the joint resolution which will be laid down to round off this debate. My Group has made a contribution to this resolution and, needless to say, approves of it.
A system of this kind is not something the EU can introduce without society' s sustaining damage as a result.
I shall therefore postpone the approval of the Minutes.
The next item is the Commission statement on the storms in Europe.
I also reject this line of argument.
- (EL) The Freedom Party' s participation in the Austrian Government is a dangerous development for the European Union' s political future.
And it will therefore be necessary to guarantee genuine freedom of movement to all citizens residing in the territory of the European Union, recognising that this is only meaningful if it is rooted in a secure base, with solid foundations in an effective judicial system to which everyone can have easy access, on equal terms, and in which our citizens can have real confidence.
To conclude, I would like to tell you what I am expecting from this reform: fair competition and equal competition conditions, legal certainty for all enterprises, consistent application of competition policy, procedural simplification according to the principle of the one-stop-shop, coordination of the national - and to me, independent - competition authorities, close cooperation between the national authorities and courts and the Commission, along with a clear distribution of competences between national authorities and courts in the application of European competition and monopolies law, and I expect the Commission to concentrate on what is most crucial in the fulfilment of its tasks as the supreme guardian of the European competition policies.
A free and open market can only exist by the grace of competition, marked by clear, uniform rules.
We want a true culture of competition in Europe.
Honourable Members, Commissioner, it is often said that Europe has succeeded in stabilising the economic sector, but this is only true if we confine ourselves purely to the public sector.
We would also like to stress that the main objective is the promotion of strategies for sustainable development, whose positive effects would extend to a broader geographical area than the local community itself, and we therefore feel it is appropriate for the projects to be integrated into the development programmes, included in Objectives 1 and 2, and into the regional planning of the regions and countries in which they are located.
We are solidly with our Austrian friends who have proven to be good Europeans in the past.
This aid is considerably less than the previous period, 1993-1995 (a 13% drop in the total amount and a drop from 3.8% to 2.6% in the amount of aid to the manufacturing sector).
We congratulate you.
I just want to outline some of the issues that we, as Socialists, have put down as amendments.
In that year, we voted against granting discharge.
It therefore needs to be withdrawn from today's agenda.
This is a Belgian government measure which flies in the face of the Schengen Treaty.
I shall take the floor very briefly, Madam President.
We as a European Parliament will use these opportunities to see that our issues are given the attention they deserve.
It therefore follows that any proposal which suggests major reform of the machinery for competition policy enforcement must be closely and carefully examined.
We therefore welcome the aggressive approach of Mr van Hulten' s report.
This is not only necessary for proper public administration, it is a conditio sine qua non of regaining the trust of the European citizen.
I know that if agreement can be reached between Syria and Israel, the Israeli Prime Minister will still face real opposition to any new agreement with Syria in any future referendum.
It is critical to note that the Commission has too often failed to act on the reforms recommended by the Court of Auditors.
In this regard, I liked your term, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi: we must all pull together, preferably in the same direction.
Why do we have to vote on this opinion tomorrow, 3 February, as a matter of urgency, when we could wait, in a position of strength, until the opening of the Strasbourg part-session on 14 February, and thus force an agenda that is complete, and therefore consistent, on the Council.
I will give an example: a fungicide has been proven to cause babies to be born blind. It is therefore a teratogenic substance.
With regard to the Tobin tax as a means of preventing future currency crises, it has to be realised that the causes of a currency being overvalued cannot be averted through taxation.
We are voting against this report on behalf of the development of public services, in memory of the victims of the Paddington rail disaster, killed not by fate but by an absurd determination to have competition where there should instead be regulations.
The debate is closed.
I have almost finished and I would like to say that I have personally requested a public hearing of the Committee on Transport, which would enable us to provide an immediate follow-up to the Erika case and to suggest possible future considerations.
It is clear that is not acceptable.
I do not wish to spend time right now, Mr Berend, going into details regarding my opinion of the general points which your House has already endorsed.
Unless we address these issues, unless we dismantle these negative stereotypes, unless we take what is best from our various cultures and languages and protect and expand it and ensure that we are serious about having a diverse Europe, we will fail.
In my mind, illegal state aid amounts to little more than state-sponsored social dumping.
In the light of the fact that 50% of unemployment in the Union is essentially structural and given the particular sensitivity of the situation in the border regions - I need only refer to the possibility of unwelcome migration - this is not only reasonable but imperative.
The second point relates to the retrodisplacement of law enforcement.
Thirdly, I do not think that the decrease in the number of the working population, owing to the ageing of the population, is unavoidable and inevitable for the European Union. This is not just because of the existence of margins which would permit an increase in the number of working women and immigration, but because we need to be determined in reversing the widespread trend of early retirements from the job market, and direct the coordinated reform of social welfare systems, certainly not towards large reductions in future pension payments but towards the active use of people' s increased life expectancy and towards a longer working life.
I see no reason why licensing arrangements cannot be organised across Europe for collection centres to scrap the 8 to 9 million vehicles which are disposed of within the European Union on an annual basis.
As far as this is concerned, a number of people have already referred to the fact that the Commission intends to drastically improve and consolidate its follow-up checks and that these checks should be carried out on a completely independent basis, with no sweeping of matters under the carpet in future.
Key EU programmes between 1989, 1993, 1994 and 1999 have certainly helped to improve the economic competitiveness of peripheral countries and Objective 1 regions within Europe.
This would represent real environmental progress because it would lead to a large reduction in CO2 which, if I have rightly understood the Kyoto Protocol, is the important factor.
Having said all that, I must say that unfortunately, my group will not be voting for your report as a united front.
Please support the Austrian people against this government!
Unless we wish to act like megalomaniacs, we cannot in the course of one presidency perform an exhaustive inventory of all possible and imaginary situations relating to all the enormous issues we face, particularly in the area of external relations.
In my capacity as a representative of the Commission, I will ensure that the charter and the actions stemming from it represent an affirmation of a Union based on a set of fundamental rights which are an integral part of Europe' s common heritage.
The European Commission will become overburdened if it pursues its current policy.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, Europe needs a strong Commission.
It is true that implementation of the Budget for 1997 fell within the old Commission' s remit. The new Commission has, on the other hand, undertaken to carry out a cleaning up exercise following former scandals, and I must admit that I am not impressed at all.
On the contrary, we should concentrate on working out persuasive proposals on the necessary reforms, in collaboration with the Commission whose own proposals are worthy of note.
Reading the precise and comprehensive explanations in the Theato report makes you realise just how many problems still need to be resolved and what these problems are.
Whether or not the agenda will ultimately be widened is still the subject of debate and on this point I would like to extol the political conduct of the Portuguese Presidency, which has repeatedly made a commitment to the European Parliament to make the necessary efforts towards that end.
The situation of certain urban areas is alarming, with the social distress taking the form of unemployment, misery and crime.
In particular, the Commission is aware of the public concerns about the recorded seismic activity in the area of the Ecemis fault line located in the vicinity of the proposed plant site.
There is agreement on the principle that marginalisation, discrimination and inequalities on the labour market should be reduced.
In Spain they say a letter to the three kings.
Creating UCLAF by means of the Task Force and setting up the anti-fraud office OLAF were important steps, as was the regulation on protecting the financial interests of the Community and on local monitoring.
Madam President, we simply have a few translation problems in this area too.
However, in moving forward, what should we be financing?
This then is the idea of monitoring implementation.
The McCarthy report on the URBAN Community Initiative gives us an opportunity to reflect on the appropriateness of Community intervention in urban matters.
Here we need to realise that there is also a market opportunity in industry for energy savings.
What do you intend to do to promote equal treatment in wages for men and women?
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
You are going to commission a fact-finding mission.
On this point which is of personal interest to me, let me remind you that the small scale of this sector - and this does not necessarily mean that it is an insignificant area - and its concentration in a limited number of regions do not make it easy to analyse in a regional context.
RINA is currently the talk of the town.
The Commission' s current President, Mr Prodi, and the High Representative, Mr Solana, have put forward ideas along the same lines.
Since the European Parliament chose to vote on a text that expressly resorted to the quota policy which my report for an opinion had attempted to denounce in no uncertain terms, and in spite of the general approach which I approve for the most part, I can do no other than abstain from the vote on Mrs McNally' s report.
It is therefore not sufficient to merely reproduce the legislation in force in other countries.
Since I more or less share the views of my colleague, Mr Sjöstedt and the representative of the Greens, Mr de Roo, I am not going to use the two minutes allotted to me, and I will highlight just two issues.
In this sense, the USA is not only our partner; it is also our competitor; not our opponent, our competitor and we must fight to see which of us offers our citizens the best model.
This means that the ceiling of 0.25% mentioned in Article 23 does not apply with regard to this type of technical assistance.
It is not a quota!
This means that almost ten million tons of waste are created by these cars, and approximately seven per cent of the latter are abandoned out in the open.
Thirdly, it seems to me important that the Commission should play a role in resisting the temptation to create independent agencies which would distort the very essence of the Commission, in order to guarantee uniform application by international bodies.
We have never before seen such serious, clumsy interference in the internal affairs of a Member State.
So I refer to the things I do not agree with.
That is to say, if this Parliament commissions a Committee of Experts - and I am not going to repeat what Mr Casaca has said, but I agree with him to a large extent - to analyse a problem, where is the sense in indulging in the medieval tradition of criticising the critics and so on, ad infinitum.
Our ambitions and our work will be followed not only by people in our own countries, but also by many people outside Europe and the European Union.
There must be an internal coherence in the Commission directorate, while respecting the specific local and regional aspects of Commission programmes.
On 1 January 1995, the Council went back on the decision to increase the number of judges laid down in Article 17 of the Accession Treaty of 24 June 1994.
It is something that we can all support.
That the Right opposes taxes is quite understandable, except that they should never have been allowed to spirit their millions, or rather billions, into Switzerland.
As I made clear in the hearings last September and on other occasions, we are at one in the belief that there is value in defining the best possible mechanisms for this purpose although obviously we all hope that it will rarely be needed.
We now come to the third proposal which is for 'Environmental disasters in the waters of the Danube' , a proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
Quite the reverse, in fact. At present, there is a whole raft of companies which make a living out of them, and a decent one at that.
It is also 'confusing' .
All the same, whether or not more issues will be considered must in no way diminish the importance attributed by every Member State to the Intergovernmental Conference.
But there is nothing in the statement which indicates that the Commission intends to take any steps to deal with the issue of cultural diversity.
There is a contradiction in terms - unanimity principle, codecision procedure, and Conciliation Committee - and it is one we must resolve if we want to strengthen, and not further weaken the principles of cultural policy that are to create a European consciousness.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the greatest legacy which your Commission could pass on to the European Union would be to help resettle and redistribute the increasingly jumbled and confused powers and competences of the Commission, and perhaps of the Union itself.
In the field of European Union legislation on combating financial crime, the Commission presented a proposal for an amended directive on money laundering.
We needed a Greek Member to finally tell us what this Tobin tax means.
We feel that the Funds are a necessary but insufficient condition for achieving economic and social cohesion.
Nevertheless, the events of the last few days show that all those who had made basic criticisms of the way enlargement and the revision of the Treaties have been planned were right.
Let us not forget that elections for local councils and regional parliaments are held so as to represent the entire population.
Europe must be modernised, made more entrepreneurial in spirit and adapted in such a way that it becomes a more competitive environment for consumers and companies.
In any event, I have taken note of your wish to see the following points included in the report: the definition, compilation and analysis of representative indicators for the region and for all the countries of Central and Eastern Europe; a chapter on the islands and most remote regions which several of you mentioned, particularly Mrs Sudre and Mr Fruteau; analyses on the competitiveness of the regions in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. This will constitute a great challenge to us all, for you and for the Commission, in the next few years.
The overall objective therefore of the White Paper on food safety is to put in place the necessary legislation and structures that will guarantee the highest possible level of health protection for consumers arising from the consumption of food.
There is no doubt whatsoever that this revision process will be the most important thing to affect the fishing industry for many years.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled 80 amendments in the committee, all concerning state aid.
This is the change we must impose on the Commission' s action.
I believe that it is important to point out one thing: expenditure effected under LEADER+ is eligible from the time that the Commission programme starts running.
I have therefore asked my services to be willing to consider a reasonable increase in the number of towns eligible under the URBAN programme conditional upon certain guarantees, firstly on concentration - I am thinking particularly of the target areas which must have a minimum of 20 000 or, in exceptional cases, 10 000 inhabitants - and also upon the critical mass of funding: we must keep to EUR 500 per inhabitant so that the European Union action may be both effective and clear, and so that it does not resemble a sort of scattering of resources which would have no real impact either for citizens or for municipalities.
We think that the role of food safety, specifically in terms of everything linked to public health, is one of our presidency' s essential tasks. It is therefore one of the priorities of our programme.
Furthermore, it will be evident that this is a matter that does not only affect Turkey, in view of that country' s proximity to the existing territory of the European Union. It also affects other states neighbouring the EU with which we maintain relations.
This will not be a matter of chance, since, let me repeat, I feel we have the same ambitions for these negotiations and that together we see it as a moment of truth for the European Union.
These exceptions relate to professions which must be exercised by persons with a genuine professional qualification.
The position taken by the presidency has shown that it is aware of this tragedy for civilisation.
I nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for the enlargement to take place.
Madam President, Commissioner, a compromise resolution on the usefulness of a tax on international financial flows would constitute a first step towards the essential amendment of many international rules.
The report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
The principle of 'polluter pays' is not being applied.
The concerns expressed by the European Parliament about Tibet are widely shared.
It is not just that we should pillory state aid; rather our approach must be one of drawing distinctions and we must assess the different types of state aid in accordance with the extent to which they help to achieve the above-mentioned objectives.
Public opinion would find it hard to understand that we talk about a common judicial area, common airspace, a common rail area and a single market, but not a common maritime area. I therefore believe that this is a project which must be opened up with the absolute will to see it followed through and followed through in concrete terms.
There are a lot of good intentions in it, but it very much lacks concrete proposals concerning how this can all be achieved.
It is, however, important to emphasise that the Intergovernmental Conference is and will remain a conference of the Member States.
Therefore we need to have credibility, coherence and confidence that in working together we can restore the image of the European Union to our citizens.
It promotes mobility, and it opens the doors of culture to the socially disadvantaged and excluded.
In May 1995, during the preparatory phase of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the CFI, concerned about the persistent increase in the volume of cases, was already insisting on the need to take measures 'without which the Court would soon cease to be able to fully satisfy the principle of the proper administration of justice and to fulfil its assigned role ... in conditions likely to compromise the protection of parties subject to trial.'
For ourselves, it is crucial that the following principles should apply.
The Commission will be called upon, in a report that has yet to be compiled for the year 1999, to give a detailed explanation of its active role in the elaboration of restructuring plans and approved exemptions, thus enabling a proper assessment of the overall situation to be made.
Question No 12 by (H-0801/99):
Mr President, Commissioner, I am speaking on behalf of my fellow Member, Robert Goebbels, who is unable to attend due to a political commitment.
If we cut down here and say that the Council now shares responsibility for this, then I fear that these human rights issues will not be given the attention they deserve.
We want to examine the possibility of introducing a Tobin tax.
The view that ethnicity is the defining factor of a nation and the claim that one ethnic group has superiority over others, as is written here, revives old ghosts of the century which we have just left behind, which some historians have described as the century of horrors; horrors which the unacceptable philosophy behind Mr Haider' s manifesto has stirred up once again, to our amazement.
As described this afternoon it will go a long way towards drowning out some of the unpleasant tunes we heard during the European election and over the last few months.
Does that give me hope for the year 2000?
The next item is the report (A5-0018/2000) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference [14094/1999 - C5-0341/1999 - 1999/0825(CNS)].
I asked Commissioner Monti the other day what happens if he proves to be wrong and there is an effective renationalisation.
Secondly, I understand the worry of industry regarding legal certainty.
In the period leading up to this, it already appeared, on the basis of the initial drafts, that the Commission had made very important pledges.
Today, we thank the Austrian people for this democratic triumph which is important to all nations within Europe and to anyone who feels particularly strongly about freedom and freedom of speech.
The Greek Government introduced two specific programmes in 1999 as part of its employment policy: "Yes to Work" and "Back to Work" .
That way, we will create a climate of cooperation which will be positive for the quality of the reforms.
There is support for the EU in Lapland also, so let us remember them.
However, our current situation is as follows: at 11.3%, we have the second highest unemployment in Europe, which was not previously the case, we have the biggest increase in unemployment, we spend less than anyone else on the unemployed, i.e. less than 1% of GDP, while other countries, such as France, Belgium and Germany spend 3-4%, and it is not clear how the money received from the Social Fund has been used, inter alia, to combat unemployment.
It is therefore a time for solidarity and cooperation between Member States in the face of an ecological and economic calamity.
Compromise wordings were agreed for five other amendments including legislative and non-legislative measures and the inclusion of local energy centres and, very importantly, the energy audit systems in the review of progress on energy efficiency.
Gender has in fact been included in the compulsory introductory course for new employees, but then with only one to two hours devoted to it on each course.
Europe should regularise the situation of all its illegal immigrants and grant them right of asylum and the right to vote in all elections. Only then can we talk in this House about an area of freedom and justice.
Some businesses have become hi-tech businesses, because they managed to recycle certain materials, even materials which are not yet included in the directive.
That is the one word I am talking about.
And so I would like to repeat my question as to whether the Council intends to take more specific action to debate these issues with Mr Kouchner, who has a major responsibility for the situation in Kosovo today.
We also need the country whose flag the ship flies to bear liability.
You could hardly expect this Commissioner to agree with a tax which would, in fact, impede international economic movement.
I respect Parliament' s wish, as it has been expressed, but I must also say that the self-determination of peoples cannot be called into question, even by the European Parliament.
The Commission is giving up its monopoly on exemptions.
It is this that gives us the determination to defend ourselves against external threats, not the constraining, convoluted decision making procedures which the Commission thought it could propose at the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
So there was not much sympathy for this budget line when it was abolished.
Those programmes themselves are intended to ensure that agriculture has a more soundly based position in those societies and does not consist simply of raping the land.
As the previous speakers have said, and as you said, Commissioner, in response to my fellow Member, Mr Martinez, with regard to another tragedy, the floods in November in the Southwest of France, you have certainly noted these disasters with concern, but all you are doing is pointing out that the budget line for emergency appropriations for natural disasters has been discontinued, which has resulted in this shocking paradox. This paradox, pointed out by the previous speaker, is that it is easier, a great deal easier, to offer help to victims of natural disasters outside the Union than within it.
Let me just look at the figures from the day that the agreement was signed.
This is extremely important and everyone should feel concerned because we are, when all is said and done, on the global scale merely a peninsula.
As the spokesperson for cultural and training policy for my group, I would have expected more in the way of agenda from an Italian President of the Commission.
So, ladies and gentlemen, I should like in a moment to return to the role and structure of the guidelines before mentioning the principal comments and criticisms that you, Mrs Schroedter, and the various Members of this House, have made.
I will keep myself free in this connection.
Finally, I abstained on the vote for a number of reasons.
We can set another example here, to the effect that Parliament is taking action to prevent mismanagement and in particular, fraud, and to mete out punishment where necessary.
We approve of your position on this: you did well not to isolate that country any further.
The number of departments has been reduced.
We only ask one thing of the Commission: that it confine itself to ensuring that the implementation of joint policies does not upset the balance of regional planning in our territories.
The so-called shared liability is very cumbersome and does not stimulate innovation.
It is an integral part of the tension, inherent in the very concept of European integration, between solidarity and cooperation between Member States, with a view to creating a better and more efficient environment for the people and the economy, and competition, which should provide incentives to improve the competitiveness and future viability of the European Union as an entity.
Are state aid to business or inter-company agreements legitimate in a market economy, and who must supervise these exceptions to the absolute rules of the market economy?
It is also true that there is a lot of European money around. Commissioner Barnier has pointed out that oyster farming and agriculture would be eligible under Article 30 of the regulation concerning rural development, forestry would be eligible under Article 33, companies would be eligible under exemptions from the competition law stated in Article 87(2) of the Treaty and public facilities would be eligible under the Structural Funds.
He is absolutely right to say that a Union which talks about conflict prevention should be looking at what it can do in these particular areas to ensure that there is not the sort of conflict in the future which has caused so much devastation in the Balkans and which has cost us a great deal more than we might have had to spend otherwise, had we taken more pre-emptive measures if those had been possible.
(Applause)
Only the people cut off from the harsh reality of the grass roots could have any doubt about that.
There is an error which has still not been corrected and that is on Amendment No 4.
It has been used by the Community for some time now in a range of policy areas, environmental, human, animal and plant health; and it is explicitly mentioned in the environmental provisions of the EC Treaty since Maastricht.
Competition restrictions are to be automatically exempted against the background of this planned system of legal exemption, insofar as the provisions of Article 81(3) of the Treaty on European Union allow.
Finally, I am concerned by the paucity of the amount allocated, if you consider, in addition, that this time the programme is available to all the countries of the Union and will be implemented for a year longer than the previous LEADER II.
We cannot continue with a situation where incompetence, mismanagement and fraud are costing the European taxpayers money and providing them with a poor service.
However, before we rush in with a whole raft of new measures and new regulations, let us look carefully at the existing arrangements to be sure that they are being properly implemented.
I do not consider that the Council tried to answer my question.
I would like to list again the things that have actually already been accomplished and that we can be pleased about.
I would also like to thank the leader of the delegation in the Conciliation Committee, Mr Provan.
We ought to face it regardless of how difficult it may seem.
Having mentioned the fundamental points of agreement between the Commission' s proposals and Parliament and, having stressed my great interest in hearing the various contributions, I should like to answer a few of the criticisms and a few of the suggestions which have been made, with apologies if I cannot attribute each of the questions to the speakers by name.
There must be an overriding economic interest.
I fully endorse the philosophy and the principles behind these decisions.
Are there any rules or regulations that govern demonstrations within the building of this Parliament, outside the doors of the Hemicycle, to ensure that MEPs are free to come into this Hemicycle to discharge their mandate?
However, Mrs Reding was certainly receptive and farsighted, and personally undertook to review the issue and carry out a comprehensive assessment within a few years, and therefore to change the situation.
Remember the IGC that led to the Single European Act.
SAVE is the only Community-wide programme dedicated to promoting the rational use of energy.
The statements we have heard today on the Middle East peace process are very opportune at the moment because of the hurried tour which Minister Gama - whose absence from this debate I also regret - has made of the region, accompanied by other Council representatives.
Clearly, they have no role to play in your strategy.
Today, this green position is being threatened under pressure from, in particular, the German and French car industries.
Very large quantities of dangerous goods are transported around the EU, both on roads and railways and by sea.
It would be politically astute not to isolate the ÖVP but to support it as an undeniably democratic, constitutional and well-known European party, so as to be equally certain that Austria will continue to be a Member of this European Community, and that is why we must give the ÖVP our support in this difficult situation, and isolation would be altogether the wrong line to take!
I feel that training should be included where it provides relevant information at European level about the CAP.
That should be our task, not political posturing.
I would therefore like to call on the Presidency of Parliament to consider that it might be appropriate for the Presidency itself to invite the Members to do likewise.
These objectives are obviously intended to make employees as useful and usable as possible to the economy.
There is no doubt that we need a legislative act here.
Mr President, year after year we learn, mainly from the European Court of Auditors' test reports, that money is lost to the budget of the European Union on account of misdemeanours ranging from wastage, mismanagement, and irregularities to suspected blatant fraud.
It is really the loss of life that makes this particular disaster an extraordinary one by European standards.
I therefore wonder whether the Community should not have a more drastic change of tack and, based on very strict evaluations, change its course and change its objectives in such a way as to make it possible to combat the disparities in wealth and employment more effectively.
This is the first point on which there is a certain amount of disagreement.
Firstly, I would like to pay tribute to the mayors and local representatives who, on a daily basis, have had to reassure their constituents, organise volunteers and cooperate with the public services.
I shall mention three issues that our group feels are priorities.
I am simply asking the Commission to come and inform the Committee on Budgets before implementing the second tranche.
Well, if the charterer is exonerated, then of course he is less concerned with the inspections which oil companies are responsible for.
If we look at the situation where safety advisers are concerned, in a number of countries it is compulsory to employ such safety advisers in companies as from 1 January of this year.
The debt burdens of the private sector and the corresponding excessive inflation of Stock Exchange securities, the two main market stability indicators, have, for some time, been at danger levels, as the Commission report on the economic situation in Europe clearly illustrates.
Even though many developments cast doubt on this, we did believe, in spite of everything, that this was the case and, more recently, reference was made, albeit half-heartedly, to the principle of subsidiarity.
Leopards do not change their spots.
I would remind you that this Group, the PPE-DE, does not like to finance new political initiatives at the expense of existing ones.
However, I fear that a purely emotional reaction by Europe to the events in Austria will only multiply Haider's adherents.
This scoreboard will not just be a mere instrument of legislative planning. It will also, and above all, be an instrument for increasing transparency and increasing the accountability of all the European Union' s institutions towards the public.
Members of this House are today speaking out against a telegram from Mr Prodi to Chancellor Schüssel which, quite obviously, is not a demonstration of sympathy but rather a political manoeuvre.
This is only useful as long as there is a sense of solidarity where rich Member States contribute to both the revenue and development of poorer Member States.
And now the Erika.
This also applies to whistle-blowers.
The discussion has centred on the allocation formula to be applied.
Its legislation is to apply equally to all, to large and small countries alike.
I want to thank the Commission for what I perceive as a very positive answer.
We are obliged to do so because we are the representatives of the citizens in a Europe of Citizens and not just in a Europe of States and of Regions.
If the limits are exceeded because of a one-sided quest for effectiveness, then the legitimising basis of the European Union will suffer.
I do not wish to alter the text of the common position in any way.
A5-0087/1999 by Mr Jonckheer, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the seventh survey on state aid in the European Union in the manufacturing and certain other sectors. [COM(1999) 148 - C5-0107/1999 - 1999/2110(COS)] (Report 1995-1997);
Subsidiarity should make us realise that the state, exercising its governing functions, and local authorities are the bodies most able to intervene appropriately. The state can ensure public safety and the local authorities can help disadvantaged people.
When will the Commission appoint a Special Envoy for Tibet?
Our Group emphasises the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, the responsibility of Member States and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes.
Mrs Schroedter, you quite rightly pointed out that while it is chiefly up to the Member States and the regions to define their own priorities in development matters, European Union cofinancing of the programmes requires, and is the justification for, a situation where Community priorities as debated and approved in this House should also be taken into account in order to promote this Community aspect of economic and social cohesion which many of you forcefully pointed out.
It is not by chance that the Committee on Culture' s decisions are constantly ending up in the conciliation procedure, for one or other Member State in the Council always holds culture hostage to other interests.
I would therefore recommend to Members of Parliament that we cut across party lines and vote against all the amendments to the common position which would weaken environmental standards and reduce manufacturers' liability.
It will, I hope, be examined in a positive light.
Even though we have not yet finished constructing all the economic building blocks, we are moving on from that kind of functionalist building of Europe to a much more challenging political perspective.
These include car manufacturers, second-hand car dealers, the federation of the car industry, the metal processing firms, shredding firms and the government.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having read the Commission communication on the INTERREG III initiative, and pointing out that I took part in the vote on Mr Decourrière' s report within the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I should like not only to expressly reiterate our agreement in principle with the initiative as presented and, particularly in the context of INTERREG III B, with the Commission' s recognition of activities contributing to the restoration of landscapes run down due the level of prices in the agricultural sector, a sector in which many associations, especially cynegetic, are already making enormous investments in my own country.
It is over ten years since the collapse of the Soviet Union and yet your projects contain a strong hint of the gulags and mollifying moralism.
The recent restoring of certain internal border controls leads me to believe that we need a detailed analysis of the conditions for adopting a legislative instrument based on Article 62 of the Treaty.
I therefore propose to submit the Minutes for your approval tomorrow morning, since obviously you do not have them and I must apologise for this.
Someone planted a car bomb and one person has died.
That is why, when we look at the EU Financial Perspective between 1989 and 1993, and 1994 and 1999, we find such a large proportion of the EU budget was put aside for the administration of the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, the fact that we are formulating new programmes does not mean that we should neglect those older programmes which are at implementation stage.
SMEs, micro-enterprises and craft businesses in particular are still "weak operators" , given that it is precisely for them that the regulatory and administrative constraints imposed by some Member States, including Italy, are major obstacles to accessing Structural Funds.
I will do everything I can to promote that high profile role for the authority.
In 1999, we had 7 murders and that does not include the Omagh bomb where 29 were killed and 300 injured.
Then, sanctions must be harmonised between the 15 Member States; they should not be different, but the same throughout the Union.
If a company in France says that it has an employee who has to work in Denmark on a permanent basis, and only in Denmark, then it certainly ought only to be possible to apply for this card for Denmark.
The industry itself will ensure that these systems are introduced in Europe.
We do drink port wine, and we do like German beer, and we even use Finnish saunas, but it is not from Europe that culture is under threat.
Fraud, mismanagement and nepotism do not come from nowhere.
I realise that this is a somewhat time-consuming exercise but, nonetheless, the establishment of legislation arising out of the opinions of the Authority is - I believe - the way forward.
The truth is the greatest problem is a political one: they do not want to tax capital, but raise personal taxation instead.
As long as we have no status, we are not credible as a force for reforming the Union. The reforms of the European institutions are necessary in order to be able to continue Europe' s development process.
I believe - as do many who for years have campaigned against Haider and his brand of politics, and especially my colleagues in the Social Democratic delegation in this Chamber - that the various measures announced by the international community, insofar as they do not have any bearing on the government and its representatives, are grave and also inappropriate.
Question No 40 by (H-0808/99):
Mr Jonckheer, I would like to thank you just as warmly for your report on the seventh survey on State aid in the European Union.
It is absolutely crucial that parallel temporary measures be introduced in the Objective 1 Regions, that is to say job creation measures, special programmes for supporting employment opportunities for women and initiatives to help people set up their own business.

In setting up numerous hurdles their sole aim is to hamper an efficient ecological material flow policy and by going down the road of type approvals they seek to delay the implementation of the directives by 12 years or more.
The fact is, showing solidarity with Eastern Europe, is all very well, but it is not enough.
But we have now arrived at a point where we need to develop competition policy further.
Firstly, the liability of owners of oil cargoes must be clearly established and the victims of pollution incidents must be able to claim on this liability unequivocally.
As far as the Commission is concerned, I hope it will be able to join in the compromise that is being concluded here in this Parliament, mainly with a view to reaching a balance.
Finally, there is currently still no European urban policy within the European Union. Perhaps this point could be developed in the context of reorganisation and the Intergovernmental Conference so that the European Union finally has a true urban policy.
Yet you do not indicate the resources you intend to implement to achieve this.
If we do not wish to stand accused of pursuing a cost-intensive structural policy that does nothing to improve the unemployment situation in the long term, then the measures drawn up so far must be analysed.
There is enormous pressure of expectation following the events that led to the resignation of the previous Commission.
All of this needs to happen, and quickly too.
Improved analysis of the obstacles facing women will make it possible to develop a strategy to eliminate those obstacles.
And that is why we have SOLAS (the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea) and MARPOL (the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships), two conventions of the International Maritime Organisation which will eventually have to be made mandatory in all Member States of the Union and whose application will have to be monitored.
Car manufacturers will have to provide information on the rate of re-use, recycling and recovery of used cars which will be achieved in the coming years.
Mr President, Commissioner, the oral question tabled by Mrs Terrón i Cusí shows that this House is taking a firm stance. Indeed, six months after the election of this new Parliament, we should now be able to send a firm political message to the people of Europe.
This is something you already know, but I would nonetheless also repeat it for the benefit of those who are listening.
The Council once again reiterated the need, in its December conclusions, to fully implement Security Council resolution 12/99 and has consistently supported Bernard Kouchner' s efforts to implement measures to guarantee effective protection of minorities in the region and, in particular, to guarantee that measures facilitating the preservation of the region' s multi-ethnic make-up are effectively implemented.
There may be a number of views on that.
I hope that the Commission is able to accept the present amendment.
The spate of mergers, takeovers and transfers that we are experiencing with the deepening of the market means that we must act to update the matrix of information and consultation directives that we have adopted in the past; but we must also complement them with the new general framework of information and consultation and an updating of the works council directive.
Our sole intention in tabling the motion is to ensure that the deadlines which were promised are now finally adhered to, and it is therefore important that we act as quickly as possible.
(Applause)
We share the view, forcefully expressed by the Committee of Independent Experts, and repeated in this draft resolution that the time has come for a thorough overhaul of our rules and procedures.
We agree that we should have better control of the finances.
Establishing a system of aids to this sector intended to ensure the survival of successful firms was therefore justifiable, even though Article 4(c), of the ECSC Treaty prohibited any sort of state aid to the steel industry.
I believe that Mrs Theato' s report and her proposal can help to reverse this very process and to make clear that the European institutions take steps to ensure that European money is employed in a targeted manner and that no fraud is perpetrated here.
I make no apology for this approach; I firmly believe that it is the correct one.
It says that this should be done despite the principle of relative stability.
The fact is that the prime concerns are the strengthening of executive power, the development of closer relations with liberalism in the countries of Eastern Europe and the relaunch of the militarisation of Europe, particularly by increasing military budgets.
I do not know whether this is in order, and I would therefore ask you to verify the accuracy of the procedure which was followed before this report reached the House.
There is little room for negotiation if one of the parties states beforehand: anything is open for discussion, as long as the budget stays fixed.
We must also ask if there is not a need for fiscal justice.
This would be necessary to keep safety standards at the level they were in northern regions previously.
It is unacceptable that something like this has been foisted on the Member States of the EU without any proper public debate.
Finally we must ensure that all the parties responsible for disasters contribute to repairing the damage caused.
What message can we send to the fishermen of Europe, and their families, and the fishing industries, both the extractive and processing and marketing industries, and the related and secondary industries which depend on fishing in so many European ports, in so many European regions, in most cases peripheral regions, who rightly demand that this problem be dealt with as a priority?
If we do reduce it, we remove from manufacturers the incentive to design and produce cars which give rise to less waste.
I commend Mr Florenz, Mr Lange and others who have sought from both sides of the party divide a compromise based on shared costs.
Madam President, on a point of order.
I would like to draw people's attention to Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which were agreed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but not accepted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
I therefore propose that this House agree to adopt the proposals on SAVE and the conclusion at the conciliation at third reading.
But all is not lost.
Basically, the more we lose our grip on morals, the more we tighten our grip on our wallet.
Mr President, first of all let me say that I am in full support of a statute for assistants.
- (FR) The vote which has just taken place in this Chamber is a historic one for it is the first time we have ever debated the internal political situation of one of our Member States with such anxiety.
We shall nevertheless continue to devote all our attention to this problem because the entire credibility of the authorities and of the organisations representing Albanians in the region also depends on the ability of these organisations to prove themselves capable of implementing measures which will guarantee the region' s multi-ethnic nature.
That is the context in which I want to consider the Commission's proposals.
(Parliament gave its assent)
Mr President, the Portuguese Presidency is extremely anxious to give a comprehensive answer to this question, particularly because it broaches an issue which concerns Portugal in a positive way, and I shall explain how.
I hope that honourable Members will excuse me if I am not able to stay to the end of the debate as I would, in all normal circumstances, wish to do.
Of course, I am in favour of providing assistance where we can.
Most people, however, would like to live in the area in which they were born and raised, if they were given the chance to, in other words, if there was work there.
(ES) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, as chairman of this Parliament' s Committee on Fisheries, Mr Prodi, you are not making things easy for me at all.
Now I do not believe that protectionism and regulation is the way of defending Europe' s culture, but I do believe in lending a helping hand when we can.
Nevertheless, as you know, this issue is now in the hands of the European Commission and it will have to take this further.
Then we will have played the role which is commensurate with our participation and our contribution.
I would also like to mention that experience has nonetheless taught us that the processing cost is in fact passed on.
Having said this, Mr President, this Parliament is holding this debate today because we did not want to delay the start of the Conference.
Those of us involved in these historic events are well aware that none of the upheaval would have been caused had we not acted with parliamentary power to press for changes in the way in which the Commission operated.
Despite these objections of mine to the Council' s action and despite my view that it is better to work for integration than to employ isolating tactics, it was important to show clearly where the European Parliament stands on questions of racism, which is why I voted in favour of the resolution at the final vote.
It stated that on the occasion of the report it must draw up in accordance with Article 7 of the European Parliament and Council decision, it would carry out an assessment of the results of the programme, and this assessment will also cover the financial resources in the context of the Community financial perspectives.
In order to generate extra means if necessary, I think it is entirely logical to turn first to the Member States and private investors.
I conclude, Mr President, by thanking the House for its attention during an unavoidably lengthy speech and by expressing sincere gratitude to the rapporteur, to the Committee on Budgetary Control and to the other committees which gave their opinions.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, in my view, this strategy paper has two clear weaknesses.
As an islander, however, I would like to express my dissatisfaction at the lack of recognition of island development.
We are familiar with Parliament' s views and we know that Parliament is aware of the views of the Council' s legal advisers.
That situation will be compounded by social reclassifications resulting from European Union enlargement, and we must therefore make provision for the economic regeneration and social cohesion of our cities.
We had Commissioner Patten speaking in this House in defence of freedom, security and justice and yet his report before the British House of Commons this afternoon, which has been accepted, will do away with the Royal Ulster Constabulary and its reserves and put the people of Northern Ireland of both religious sections into the hands of the terrorists.
I think that we need to consider how we can best present this to the general public.
Why should it not be possible for the G7 countries, the other EU Member States, China, Singapore and Switzerland to come to an agreement on the introduction of the Tobin tax?
Public monopolies are, more often than not, phased out reluctantly.
But we should not create the impression that vast amounts of European resources are being put at risk by carelessness in the European Commission.
I would like to thank Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Parliament is committed to this task, which is something this report bears impressive witness to.
We must create joint, interregional and transnational management bodies, in which all local and regional authorities, as well as economic and social operators, play an active role.
I am in suspense as to how the discussions, which were broadly based, will be incorporated in the first legislative proposal.
You will cynically and hypocritically use Austria as a convenient threat to further strip the Member States of any real powers in the construction of the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal presented by the Commission, in accordance with its mandate, is a reasonable starting point for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
My amendments concern the frost-resistance ratings for tankers carrying these dangerous goods.
The first key concern is independence.
What now needs to be done, and this was the reason for the consultations and discussions between the Commission and the Danish Government, and with other governments, is to find the best way forward, so that something which is decided at European level by all the Member States, and which constitutes a general framework, can also include workers posted to Denmark from other countries.
I would like to raise the problems which are still piled up high on our desks.
I am persuaded, however, by the suggestion in paragraph 34 of the report on using external bodies to enforce existing provisions on financial liability.
We have been told how, currently, people's time is being wasted and that the changes, therefore, could be beneficial.
Enlargement of the Union is just a few years away.
No transboundary effects have been detected and most of the weapons will have been used on the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
We could mention, my Belgian friends, Belgium and the Dutroux case, the dozens upon dozens of children kidnapped, tortured, raped and murdered by leading personalities in this country, where inquiries are bogged down, making no headway.
If we develop motive power of the kind I have described, I am quite certain that market forces and commercial interests in the car industry will ensure that mechanisms develop for dealing with both the cost and the workload.
How do you intend to go about integrating immigrants into the Community, reuniting them with their families and recognising their rights and duties on an equal footing with those of the citizens of Europe?
Public monies are used in order to repair the damage caused by international speculation, as was the case in Mexico, Asia and Brazil.
This is a silent revolution and in this respect I expected more from your communication.
I can only emphasise that these are the really hard nuts that finally need to be cracked.
For example, at least in the countries which I know well, I doubt that the intention, repeated three or four times in the Commission document, to reform 'Europe' s social protection, health care and pension systems ...in a climate of more cautious public spending' will meet the needs of those whose confidence we apparently want to win back.
It means ecological progress for Europe, and we can be proud of ourselves if we succeed in enacting it and setting it in motion.
The views I shall express today are not far removed from those I had then.
The assessment of whether or not the discharge will be granted also depends to some extent on where the emphasis is placed.
My first point is that Parliament must not be excluded from the important decisions to be taken in this area and that its participation in the decision-making process must be guaranteed, especially with regard to this project which affects the citizens, as the Commissioner has explained very well.
Question No 35 by (H-0778/99):
Emphasis must also be placed on the fact that a state aid policy - and the Jonckheer report makes this very clear - must continue to afford each state the freedom to define and organise the tasks of the public sector and ownership structures on an independent basis.
Mr President, Commissioner, there is a risk of Central Asia and the Caspian Sea becoming the Balkans of the 21st Century.
I believe, Mr Kinnock, that notwithstanding all the success achieved on a personal level, the Commission still has quite a lot to do to satisfy our justifiably high expectations.
The Tobin tax will bring some transparency to a very obscure question.
This applies, as already stated, to the United Kingdom and it also applies to Belgium, where it was recently of relevance.
A document is circulating at the moment - not at a low level, but at a high level within the Commission - which, instead of enhancing the public nature of documents, is having the opposite effect.
For instance, it should be pointed out that fallen timber provides the best breeding ground for the bark beetle' s larvae, and we are not yet in a position to assess the repercussions this will have.
The elections to the European Parliament in 1999 showed perfectly clearly that the people of Europe do not fall in with the notion of an ever more federalist EU centred upon Brussels.
Our world is now dominated by a single logic or, I could say, a single god of money at work instead of people at work.
This will be a good opportunity to address the need to take similarly courageous steps to improve the Palestinian administration and to bolster the rule of law.
We hope that the White Paper and the actions of you and your Commission will put this into practice.
Report (A5-0107/1999) by Mr Berend, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the Sixth Periodic Report on the Social and Economic Situation and Development of the Regions of the European Union (SEC(1999)0066 - C5-0120/1999 - 1999/2123(COS))
If this solidarity is to have been worthwhile, it is up to Europe to propose priority actions for safeguarding the timber industry.
In this respect, the issue requires closer examination, because the sensitive situation in the Caucasus region could heighten people' s suspicions.
So what are we to do now?
My question, which has not been answered, is why, when the European Parliament is looking to increase appropriations to fund cultural programmes within the European Union, the Council and the Commission are cutting back on appropriations and at times cutting them out altogether.
Vote in favour of environmental and consumer protection and for innovation in the car and recycling industry!
The Commission has taken note of the position adopted today by the European Parliament regarding the request made by the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance. The purport of this request is, on the one hand, to transfer the assessment of certain appeals to the Court of First Instance, such appeals currently being within the exclusive scope of the Court of Justice and, on the other hand, to increase the number of judges at the Court of First Instance.
The renovation project, which lasted for months, cut off this important route between the north and south of Europe.
Our most deprived urban neighbourhoods face a plethora of problems: high unemployment and often very low-paid precarious employment, poverty and social exclusion.
Madam President, I believe I am expressing the feeling of a great number of Members of Parliament in most of the political groups when I say that the message which the President of the Commission sent to the new Austrian Chancellor a week ago created some unease.
We are therefore concerned to see the flurry of Commission announcements in recent weeks by Commissioner Kinnock suggesting policy proposals of various kinds to be put in a White Paper shortly.
The truth, of course, is that a great many Member States, and no doubt other nations too, have taken measures to protect their populations' health which amount to using the precautionary principle, even if it has not always been called that.
I shall say that something is already taking shape in Berlin and in the financial instruments available to us which may be a policy on cohesion for the first countries who are going to join us.
Mr Sjöstedt, the answer that I gave was the only answer possible.
We will be looking at the extent to which we can create an equilateral policy triangle combining economic policy, employment policy and social policy.
That is why I should like to support the Social Democrats' request to hold the vote on Friday.
Some of our working practices need radical reform.
From what I have said, it must be obvious to you that the European Parliament is not prepared to simply play the role of observer.
There are some who think that it is more in our interests to let bygones be bygones and make a fresh start. I do not, however, think we can make a fresh start if we do not tidy things up properly.
The newspaper reports that the honourable Member made reference to seem to me to be misleading and inaccurate.
As Mrs Ahern has explained very well, the budgets of both the SAVE programme and the ALTENER programme, are basically symbolic budgets, since the burden is shouldered by the countries, the States of the Union, the regions or even, in some cases, the local authorities.
Some of the most active and committed proponents and agents of change in our urban areas are local residents.
I would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur for his exceptionally accurate and technical work on the report and, secondly, the Commission for the proposal it has submitted.
I wish to assure you, firstly, that the merging of the periodic reports and the report on cohesion should not entail any loss of information or loss of interest as regards the content of the report on cohesion which is, as far as I am concerned, Mr Berend, an extremely important instrument, not only to provide information on what has been achieved in a transparent and rigorous manner, so that future guidelines may be examined or evaluated, but also to create a public debate involving the citizens of Europe and, furthermore, with the elected representatives, i.e. yourselves, on the subject of this regional policy and what might one day be a European regional planning policy.
I accept this; I take note of it as you do.
We need to consider how we will deal with situations of this kind.
Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism considered, amongst other things, the report on LEADER+ and, as a result, agreed to support the process of decentralisation in the management of actions, believing that that process could be effective on two conditions: that local action groups represent the general interests of the local community, and that Commission control mechanisms are utilised to prevent local and regional political authorities from using LEADER+ resources to support civil groups and organisations which are related to those authorities.
We therefore consider that, in future, vehicles which clearly and effectively use lightweight construction methods will produce less CO2 and should receive preferential treatment in their combustion quotas.
Mrs Theato has already expressed as much and I am only too willing to support her in this regard.
Finally, on the subject of technical assistance, on which your rapporteur and several of you commented. It goes without saying that the Commission will adhere to the terms of Article 23 of the general regulations regarding technical assistance, if it is indeed assistance intended to be an instrument useful to structural policy in general.
The next five years of the Prodi Commission - as you solemnly announce in the first of your conclusions - will mean great change.
A car has dangerous components which we must ban long-term.
Firstly, the same penalty clauses regarding European fraud must apply in all Member States of the European Union.
Therefore, according to proponents, such as Mr Désir, an internationally applied Tobin tax would, in principle, reduce speculative transactions and, hence, the volatility of exchange rates, which would lead to an improvement in economic prosperity.
This is repulsive most of all in social terms.
There are, at the very least, rumours that Serbian militias are up to their old tricks again.
. Thank you very much, Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, for these questions.
If there is to be a change to the present United Kingdom border arrangements, that change should be made by the United Kingdom Government and the United Kingdom Parliament and not en passant by the European legislative process.
We support Europe, a Europe which does honour to all the actions that have brought us to this point, a Europe which respects the Treaties and the law and a Europe which needs Austria.
Various local authorities around the North Sea provide a prime example of this.
And such a network could take the form of improved coordination between national public prosecution authorities, for example, and the creation, if necessary, of national teams specialising in offences involving Community finances.
The report states that in Greece and Italy targets for improving ?employability? have not yet been reached and it is doubtful whether the policies to be implemented will enable the guidelines on preventing and dealing with long-term unemployment to be complied with.
Regarding this problem of partnership, I shall be extremely attentive to ensuring that the terms of the Structural Funds regulations are applied properly.
There is now a weight of public opinion demanding an answer more sophisticated than: "It has not been done before".
It will, at best, lead to more bureaucracy and less room for local democracy and for people to get involved in choosing and developing projects.
Since then the Brussels landscape has changed beyond recognition; a new, reinvigorated Parliament has been elected and a new Commission confirmed in office.
My reply would be: a new start, a clear agenda for reform which confirms that the Union in the 2000s will not stop at being an economic community but will become a community that can be trusted and that we take seriously.
The measure which we should be taking is part of the resolution before us here today.
I am deliberately stating this at the beginning of my intervention to make it clear that there is in fact an alternative view to that of the committee responsible, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
However, I should like to stress INTERREG' s particular importance for the Balkan area, where political developments and hostilities over the past few years have had major economic repercussions for neighbouring countries and especially for my own country, Greece, which is the only Member State on that long-suffering peninsula.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think we need this directive.
It should not be in the amendment.
I am referring to the double hull, which consists of two layers of steel, with containers divided into two tanks.
Since there is great uncertainty surrounding the way in which rules are interpreted, local councils and regions have now started to enlist the services of expensive bureaux. The task of these experts is to gauge to what extent European Commission officials would be prepared to approve plans.
It is nevertheless the case that not a penny more than what was allocated before the storm will now be freed up to demonstrate practical, active solidarity.
You have made an explicit reference to the CAP for the coming years, but you have not done so for the CFP, with regard to the double adaptation of the internal market which is necessary to prevent exceptions - as has already been said - and in a global context, in the context of globalisation.
Only a strengthened Europe is immune to political opportunists who exploit dissatisfaction.
We need to take this responsibility seriously.
That does not prevent these Member States from taking public-order measures within the framework of the proposed duty of notification.
The planned introduction of Eurojust is one of our significant successes from Tampere and must now be implemented forthwith.
Unfortunately, the 25% often consists of flags which are expected to fulfil the requirements: in this way inspections are quicker and the work is carried out more easily.
I would also like to remind Members that, as a candidate for membership of the European Union, Turkey will - and this is a pre-accession condition, which is an important point - sooner or later, as part of its own pre-accession strategy, have to adopt a set of policies geared towards adopting the entire acquis communautaire in good time, and including therefore all provisions already in force on nuclear safety.
I do not think, however, that this report has come too late.
Madam President, I do not wish to reopen the debate, but I had also asked for the floor, to comment on Mr Barón Crespo's motion.
Secondly, as already mentioned by my colleague, Mr Mulder, the ELDR is of the opinion that the European Parliament should also be investigated by independent experts.
We want instruments to prevent abuse.
I support institutional changes so as to ensure that enlargement of the Union takes place in a streamlined and structured manner.
And therefore we must take the utmost care to prevent the recurrence of a similar situation.
This debate and the amendment of the directive currently in force allow us to incorporate differentiating elements which demonstrate the diversity of this Europe of ours.
Hence, as Mr Karas has stated to his credit, our Group is resolutely opposed to the introduction of the Tobin tax.
We should get it into perspective.
Mr President, Commissioner, I second all those who expressed their solidarity with the storm victims.
I believe that it is well worth insisting that we wish to participate more with regard to the Court of Justice, even in the appointment of judges.
While, on the one hand, we believe that steering committees should ensure that the various projects are coherent and complementary, we would on the other hand urge the Commission to reinforce exchanges of information and coordination between the departments involved.
That makes sense from an economic and an ecological point of view.
It is to be welcomed that Mr van Hulten' s report makes the connection between all three areas and also makes it clear as to where the crucial shortcomings lie, which must be tackled.
I hope to have a debate with the European Parliament and with civil society on this scoreboard project.
We must monitor compliance with environmental standards, employment standards, in order to prevent dumping in this area, and we must ensure scrupulous respect for property rights and the revision of state aid, which in many industries - as has already been said - distorts competition and destroys jobs within our own territory. To sum up, we should apply similar conditions that will prevent aid, internal distortions by other countries, from being transferred to the international arena, in other words, through trickery.
Turning now to the most important of our proposed amendments, one of the essential differences is that, in place of a "service provision card plus notification for each individual contract" system, provision is no longer made for being able to request the previous notification from the receiving state for each individual contract.
This is probably linked to the standards mentioned by Mr Van Dam, namely subsidiarity.
This is not our opinion.
Secondly, a genuine effort is required to make administrative procedures simpler and more transparent, since, they are all too often unnecessarily lengthy and complicated, to the point of hindering access to the Funds. This is something about which European small and medium-sized businesses, in particular, tend to complain.
It is therefore also being requested that ISO 9002 certificates possibly include the finer details of these activities in the form of annual reports and company analyses.
It is good that URBAN is to continue, as it has had good results at local level.
I have one last point to make, which is about the European Union' s responsibility and, specifically, in this case, about possible action by the Council in this matter, and the responsibility of the international community, which has overall responsibility for the situation in Kosovo.
I would like to ask the Commission - and I am glad that Commissioner Solbes is here with us this evening - to present us in time with this multiannual finance programme, with the corresponding report, requested by Parliament, so that it may be taken into account when the preliminary draft of the next budget is drawn up, as we have been promised.
One is the balance which has so far been maintained between large and small countries.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists requests that a Commission statement be included on its strategic objectives for the next five years and on the administrative reform of the Commission.
(Parliament gave its assent)
How often has a lawyer with two companies and one project, in the face of a Commission guideline given ex ante, changed that project in order for it to comply with the competition rules!
I am seriously concerned that unless the Commission recognises that this is an important aspect of how we will create a cohesive Europe, we will make progress on the economic front, on the employment front and even on the issue of foreign and security policy, but our citizens will still remain fearful because they will fear the unknown and they will fear those they do not understand.
This is no longer tolerable.
On the subject at hand, I think that the people of Europe must be able to be confident that the goods - however dangerous they are - which are transported on Europe's roads, railways, and so on are as safe as possible.
I believe that the Irish Government and the European Commission and different EU governments cannot alone decide on specific spending priorities.
I also believe that the Commission, or President Prodi, has acted as a guardian of the Treaties.
However, the measures that may subsequently be taken must obviously comply with the general principles applicable to risk management and the guidelines for applying the precautionary principle are therefore the key element of the paper.
It is an excellent opportunity for this Parliament to introduce far-reaching reforms to these plans.
These guidelines represent a step towards the improved effectiveness of Community structural aid.
This is a starting point and we have five years to succeed, provided that the political will exists and is expressed with sufficient force and clarity.
The Austrian People' s Party, which I represent here in this Parliament, used to be and still is a party that has consistently spoken up for the integration of my country into the EU and feels deeply attached to the community of values that is the European Union, and likewise its basic political principles of deepening and enlargement.
We look to the Commission also to ensure that there is matched funding for projects.
The amendment of the Treaties was, however, limited to a review of some internal rules, which was necessary and important, but did not answer the fundamental question: what is Europe, what are its common principles and therefore, its objectives and limitations?
As Commissioner Wallström indicated during the hearings in the European Parliament in September 1999, the Commission will bring up the issue of nuclear safety and radiation protection in any relevant meeting with the Turkish Government in the future and I am happy to inform you that I will have a meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister in a couple of days and will certainly raise the issue.
Secondly, at the end of 1999 unbelievable storms raged bringing death and destruction to vast tracts of the EU.
We were also outraged, however, at the tolerance of the left for the tyranny, the terror and the excesses of the former USSR.
That is our duty.
We have to be able to think hard about how we can coordinate the aim of competitiveness with the aim of full employment; that is what was mentioned in your programme.
The Tibet Intergroup, therefore, gravely concerned about the continuing human rights abuses in Tibet and supporting the Dalai Lama?s proposal for dialogue with the Chinese Government to resolve the situation in Tibet, calls on the Commission to appoint a Special Envoy for Tibet to address the concerns of the European Union and to help bring the Tibetan and Chinese authorities together for dialogue.
As I have little time, Mr President, I would like to touch upon two elements of our resolution.
Hurricane "Lothar" should prompt us not to abide solely by the principle of undertaking repairs once the damage is done - something which is discussed at a very superficial level here -, but to switch to the precautionary principle, under the terms of which potential perpetrators are brought to book too.
Funding for energy saving still comes primarily from the Member States.
Because the Americans managed to learn their lesson from the Exxon Valdez disaster and in 1990 to draw up the Oil Pollution Act, which makes the parties concerned aware of their responsibilities, as it makes it possible to hold the charterer liable, and is more restrictive, and, more especially, more carefully monitored thanks to various regulations and, in particular, the existence of the American coastguard.
This was the opening statement of Commission President, Prodi, when he presented the strategic objectives of the European Commission for the next five years.
The common position puts European car manufacturers in a disadvantageous position in relation to manufacturers which have just come to the European market.
You will notice in the White Paper that we have not been specific about the makeup of that board.
They also call for a general debate on the future of the cohesion policy after 2006, but that is another subject.
We are all concerned about the environment and our children' s future.
We should be careful about this.
The procedures for the exercise of these implementing powers conferred on the Commission were laid down afresh in the Council Decision of June 1999.
We cannot forget old car enthusiasts either, of whom there are more than 50 000 in Finland alone.
As has always been the case, there are offences that transcend European offences, as it were, or at least there is the potential for them to do so, and these might include money-laundering, receiving stolen goods, and forming a criminal organisation.
Future actions will take place within the stability pact for south-eastern Europe. A special regional environmental reconstruction plan is also being developed.
We support legality and democracy as expressed by the peoples, and favour upholding national sovereignty as long as this does not violate the principles of the Treaty or human rights.
Together with Mrs Grossetête and the PPE-DE Group, we tabled a motion for a resolution.
Now the Presidency and the Council have to bring the presents which we have asked them for in our letter to the three kings.
In fact, competition policy and consumer policy belong together.
We want to achieve a completely flexible solution.
This is worth a compliment although I regret, of course, that he did not expound it in his own mother tongue.
Another point is that waste should not be incinerated or crushed, not only in the case of lead, cadmium and mercury, but also in the case of waste which contains PVC.
Equally, unemployment levels in the worst affected regions barely fell at all, indeed they rose in some cases.
But I have taken on board your suggestion and I will give it further consideration.
This is not a situation related to the economic climate, however; rather it is a structural problem, created by our remoteness, our insularity, in short, our own specific personality.
I look forward to attending that meeting and hope that at last we can begin to push things forward again.
It would be marvellous if this report were to give the green light to result-oriented spending of this kind, with all the work organised on that basis.
A communication in June will set out the full proposal for change.
Next, we all too often see vast sums of money being spent on projects whose outcomes will necessarily be unclear at the start of the programme period.
What concrete measures have been discussed?
They must, however, not be subordinated to the objectives and aspirations of a more generally negative economic and social policy, but must develop their own self-sufficient role.
If there is a desire to make the EU more democratic, the whole construction of EMU must be reconsidered.
As far as we are concerned, we look at things from the point of view of the interests of the working classes.
It has not been possible for the Court of Auditors to issue an auditor' s statement to the effect that the arrangements covered by the accounts are lawful, and we should regard it as extremely problematic if we, as Members of this Parliament, were to vote in favour of accounts without having any guarantee of the legality of the arrangements concerned.
That is how the wolf - albeit on account of the self-sacrifice of the ÖVP - is sustained rather than kept in check.
The report rightly emphasises the central importance that human resources policy must have in reform.
I believe that is a good thing
Firstly, the European Parliament has already expressed its opinion on the subject of General Pinochet, but, furthermore, there are certain questions to be borne in mind.
Mr President, the Commission is now to obtain its discharge for 1997, but in reality it does not deserve it.
We are, therefore, in agreement with the report, Commissioner, as well as the broad outlines of the White Paper.
The fact that it did not establish a genuine procedure, that it did not establish time limits, that it did not regulate access for interested parties to the files, or that the right to defence was not properly recognised, were factors which led to the unanimous demand for reform.
Citizens of Europe expect the European institutions to be properly managed and they are right to do so.
Many of the general points raised in our committee's report have been covered in Mrs van der Laan's report.
However, if we were merely to propose a simple moving of deckchairs, this would clearly not be enough.
These concerns must be looked at while setting up the programmes.
This is because we think that they are particularly able to create employment in the poorest and least-developed regions and we would thus contribute to reversing the harmful trends towards inequality that exist in European society and to the move towards a fairer Europe.
A number of issues naturally emerge as additional potential targets of Community support in the coming phase of the peace process - among them, helping to consolidate a Golan settlement both in terms of contributing to security arrangements and supporting demining and the rebuilding of communities in the Golan Heights.
Madam President, although I too have spent most of my life in fast cars, I agree with my colleague, Mr Florenz, that the directive on scrapping cars must make it clear that vintage cars are not included.
As President Prodi too mentioned when outlining the strategic objectives for the period 2000-2005, boosting the Barcelona process is a priority for the Union, and the INTERREG III initiative will be able to make its contribution to the pursuit of this strategic objective.
This poses enormous challenges for competition policy, which I hope it will be able to meet because, for certain, many of those mergers are going to be designed to protect profit margins of the businesses from competition rather than merely to enhance productivity and make those businesses able to operate on a bigger scale.
At the moment, our group still feels sympathy for, and patience with, the Commission because it cannot be held responsible for a large proportion of the mistakes made in the past, but this patience has a limit.
I would urge both the Member States and the Commission to give sufficient consideration to the huge disparities in wealth which continue to exist between the different regions in Europe.
The concern involves the pre-accession process for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in terms of competition policy and state aid.
There are a number of sound amendments.
We need also to be sensitive to the concerns of Member States.
Cars are one of the fastest growing sources of waste we have in Europe.
Our normal disagreement further emphasises our appreciation today: this is extraordinary because the danger of a resurgence of an irrational, neo-nazi element in Europe is extraordinary.
It is practically certain that, with the raft of proposed measures and actions, it should be possible to approach the objective of a 12% renewable energy share by 2010, doubling the current rate, as long as the appropriations including state appropriations are made available.
In the first reading debate it was only the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee which asked this question and it was only myself as the draftsman of the opinion of that committee who posed that question in Parliament. That is quite simply: Who pays?
No, Mr Bourlanges, I think it is a substantive problem.
That surely is in everyone' s interests.
This is inadequate, and I am personally delighted that Mr Barnier has stated an idea close to my heart and which, moreover, I expressed when I told the press in Bordeaux what I am hoping for, and that is the establishment of a reinforced policy of European civil security.
Consequently, neither the Council, the Commission nor the European Parliament has the right to interfere in the internal administration of a Member State.
It is fair to say that the new President, Mr Prodi, and his team are certainly committed to implementing the financial control requirements as laid down by this Parliament.
At the moment, with inter-company agreements and the privatisation of monopolies preserving dominant positions and even consolidating them, the combating of abusive conduct is becoming particularly important.
I am pleased to see that the Commission shares our view.
- The Schroedter report speaks of the need to promote partnerships with regard to the spending of EU Structural Funds in Europe for the period 2000-2006.
Mr President, the proposal we are discussing has a huge amount of advantages, mainly in the interests of preventing waste and encouraging re-use, the recovery and recycling of components and the recovery of materials, etc.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
In fact, I believe that things have been done by the Commission, but there is still more to do.
The principle of specific, exceptional treatment was envisaged in Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to deal with such cases.
I must declare an interest as a lawyer but also as a former competition minister in the United Kingdom.
The progress made will not be due to the Commission nor to the Council, nor even to the European Parliament, but to a combination of European institutions and to the Member States themselves, in as much as - as has already been pointed out here - specific tasks on the scoreboard will be entrusted to the Member States under the principle of subsidiarity.
Because, as well as the irreparable damage to the environment, the damage to the ecosystem and losses in the tourist industry, the oil slick dealt a huge blow to the fishing industry, to the conservation of marine resources, and the damaged coast lines will take years to recover.
We will be looking for the detail year by year, for example in the social action programme to be unveiled this year.
It is more a question of nine minutes, perhaps nine hours if it is difficult, locked away together in a room to reach a solution on these subjects, not nine months.
It behoves all of us to do everything possible to ensure their survival.
Greater transparency will also help to achieve public acceptance of decisions relating to competition policy.
In this respect, the excellent speech by Mrs Thyssen cannot be improved upon.
Certain amendments concern improvements to the Commission' s proposal which we adopted as early as at the first reading or else they reintroduce into the directive such parts of the original proposal as the Council has removed.
Only, now we want to see this translate into deeds and we also want to see success in Kosovo, and I would urge the Commission to see that these funds are put to good use, notably for building up the police force and for establishing the judiciary.
Our heritage has taught us that politics must have a heart.
Furthermore, although there might be international consensus on the introduction of the scheme, the question would remain regarding how the tax revenue would be distributed.
With every tide, the volunteers, members of the armed forces and firemen remove great pancakes of this thick, sticky, black tar.
Let me remind you, Mr Wurtz, that we shall be seeing Mr Prodi tomorrow. He is going to make a statement on the Commission' s programme.
Would you be so kind as to bear with me for a few minutes.
We must regulate the use of flags of convenience, make double hulls mandatory for the transport of polluting or dangerous materials, work on technological innovations in order to be able to process or recover hydrocarbons at sea.
I therefore believe that it is necessary to act in two ways.
At the same time of course, we need to create the power to act in order to facilitate the enlargement of the European Union.
The terms of the regulations to be enforced must be particularly clear and strict.
Commissioner, Mr President, Lothar was a quite ordinary name hitherto.
Not a euro more or a euro less.
That is important, but equality is not only necessary for productivity, but also to make our societies more democratic.
Mrs Ahern, we have taken note of this.
Hopefully, the stands Parliament has taken will help, however, in the mid-term appraisal of the programmes and in their practical implementation.
Not only has he admired Adolf Hitler, praised the Waffen SS, and refused to condemn a terrorist bombing that killed four Roma, but also in Carinthia has been a member of the regional government.
This is connected to what Mr Van Velzen was just saying, about the difference between words and deeds.
I think that there is a need for this, as public opinion is looking for change and, in any event, my group would like to see a clear change by the end of 2002.
It is true that there was a joint decision by the Council and Parliament seeking to discontinue emergency lines.
And then perhaps everyone will stop bandying about arguments which are asking for trouble!
Finally, and in conclusion, Mr President, with the expiry of the ECSC Treaty, the regulations will have to be reviewed since I think that the aid system will have to continue beyond 2002, and in that case I am in favour of a Council regulation which will ensure security in this area.
I therefore appeal to the German delegates in particular to prevent major political damage occurring today!
They must be implemented without delay.
Many thanks for this.
We therefore have a number of amendments.
Amendments Nos 13, 28, 32, 37, 42 and 48 involve introducing unnecessary conditions and exceptions.
I appreciate and fully support his point on the need for multiple policies and a multi-disciplinary approach and also the need to combat the underlying causes of exclusion which can lead to homelessness and include the problem of drug dependency.
For it to enter into force, it must be ratified by all 15 Member States.
In this respect, the Commission supports Amendment No 22, as I have already mentioned.
After all, what is social justice if it is without full employment?
What you say in your programme about concentrating on the core functions of the Commission is only the beginning.
This seems to me to be a workable solution.
The European regional policy also reinforces the centralism of Brussels with which the regional authorities are invited to negotiate directly on the use of the Structural Funds.
In response I shall say the same thing I said to Mrs McNally just now.
In addition, it is also essential for the European Union to undertake to reform the IMO, as a matter of urgency.
The application of the framework agreement between the Palestinian authorities and Israel is also suspended at the moment.
Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the representatives of the Council as well as the Commissioner.
No one wants an unimpeded subsidy competition in Europe.
That is why I am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur.
This is on account of the process of enlargement to the east and that of greater integration with the Mediterranean countries.
We do not consider that Amendments Nos 2 and 14 add anything to the directive.
In setting very ambitious long-term goals we must not take our eyes away from the present.
I ask Member States to grasp this opportunity. This programme must work at full capacity.
We agree with Mrs Stenzel that the request to postpone the vote is admissible in the interests of achieving the greatest possible agreement between the groups, so that Parliament can express its position on this initiative with the broadest majority possible.
I have also tabled a resolution on this subject on behalf of the EDD Group.
Unfortunately, in my case, he did not provide what I would call a satisfactory answer.
The Christian Democratic parties in my country have made up their minds a long time ago and they stick to their decision to listen to the protests of extreme-right voters but never to negotiate with extreme-right leaders.
Freedom, security and justice are the root system of any society, reflecting its history, corporate experience and political development.
These amendments would also make the objectives awkward to deal with and difficult to supervise.
The Portuguese Presidency must put an end to this type of barbaric behaviour.
Unfortunately, my Dutch is not as good as yours.
Seen in this light, globalisation is more of an opportunity than a danger, more of a coming together than a segregation, more mutual enrichment than separation.
Thirdly, we have the problem of the uniform application of Community law.
Past experience dictates that, as the elected representatives of the European taxpayer, we should, and indeed must, demand financial probity and transparency in the disbursement and auditing of this money, hence our amendments and additions relate to achieving what are known as "value for money" indicators in the grant-giving process.
The European Commission must make good these omissions as soon as possible.
It has become eminently political.
Not a single line, nor a single word, refers to fishing or the CFP.
Joint resolution on Austria
Consideration should be given to what science is offering in the way of knowledge, and this should be used as an important political tool for protecting the environment and people' s health.
Have you stopped to ask whether or not we will also be responsible for the way in which the political situation unfolds from now if we set ourselves up to pass judgement on it here?
However, I feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the Community' s regional policy.
We are delighted today to see the progress this idea has enjoyed in certain circles, one which are still, unfortunately, outside the European Parliament and the Commission.
What is more, if we reduce manufacturers' liability on this issue, this will also have serious consequences for subsequent matters in other areas, for example the forthcoming directive on scrap from computers and other electronic equipment.
Allow me to remind you, however, that use of the precautionary principle does not need to be synonymous with there being a total ban.
This policy would have important economic consequences for the fishing industry in Brittany in that catches could be unloaded at Irish advance bases in order to then be transported to the Breton agri-foodstuffs industry.
The Commission does not have enough staff.
There must be rules governing existing vehicles too.
The Commissioner has said that a minimum number of industrialised countries would be needed to achieve this.
We have a quite exciting debate in front of us.
We have presented the Council with a series of questions and I know that it is the will of the Portuguese Presidency to answer each and every one of them.
Our citizens do not need any new institutions and certainly no new mixing of powers.
Is there currently a sufficient legal basis for justifying, in legal terms, the creation of a specifically Community-wide criminal law which, although it might be called subsidiary, will always clash with the practice, and in certain areas, with the traditional, separate criminal law of the Member States?
Can I first thank Mr van Hulten for this report.
We think that this picture of ours is confirmed by the examination carried out by the Court of Auditors.
This is why I should like to see the next report on state aid include some assessment of the effect of such aid on employment, industry and craft businesses in the beneficiary countries.
I am pleased to see, however, that under LEADER+, new resources have been allocated to helping rural territories to develop their potential and to implement the objectives of local and sustainable development.
Within the authority I envisage much stronger scientific and other support for the independent scientists.
The vote will be taken at noon on Thursday.
Another matter we would like to address, specifically from the point of view of industrial policy, is that we would have liked the Commission to pay more attention to the effects of services, electronic commerce and the growing use of the Internet, when they were planning the coordination of Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds.
The Commission must carry on negotiations that are a decisive attempt to have each applicant country join the Union as soon as possible.
We would like the Commission to make commitments on the amendments we are proposing in regard to this.
There is a lot of expertise within the relevant organisations which deserves to be shared.
I do not have exact figures, but the Community' s budgetary discipline and the associated implementing provisions apply to almost 100 different areas of responsibility of the financial controller, to his or her independence and the tasks assigned to this office.
No, equality means that we all participate in both working life and family life.
Surely Assad would be Barak' s ideal negotiating partner and not the Foreign Affairs Minister.
As people have said, the situation there is extremely volatile.
We regret this as there was actually money left over from the Structural Funds in some countries which could really have helped with pilot projects. We should remember that it is these URBAN projects which specifically allow a truly urban policy to be established.
Moreover, I would like to say that I appreciate the remarks and observations that Professor Tesauro, Chairman of the Italian Competition Authority, sent me, and which I am sure Mr Monti will take into due account with a strong sense of collaboration.
(Applause)
Mr President, firstly my thanks and appreciation to Commissioner Patten for his comments here today, particularly in relation to the role of the European Union in the peace process, and for reaffirming that our role is not only that of "banker" for the entire operation.
Dropping the obligation to notify will mean less red tape and administration costs, at any rate.
Still on the subject of Wednesday' s sitting, I have another proposal regarding the oral question on capital tax.
According to UNIFIL, there are now concrete signs that Israel is preparing to withdraw, which is something we welcome.
At the moment, social policy is trailing well behind economic and employment policy.
Let me remind you that the time limit for this programme is six months.
Society gains nothing from these massive transfers of public funds to private business.
They were the first to say that, each day, they must think about doing what is most cost-effective because resources had to suffice for their poor patients there. We must be very careful about how we use resources.
We have opened this chapter with the White Paper on Food Safety: we now need to make significant headway in the environment sector.
I come from a country which manufactures 50% of the cars in the EU and it is precisely the free collection of end-of-life cars which is so financially onerous and unacceptable.
The date when the Commission is supposed to present its communication devoted to this key issue is put off time and again. It is now scheduled for July.
It affects not only Romania, but also Yugoslavia and, in fact, the entire Danube basin.
The precise wording of texts provides a guarantee and legal certainty for those people who will have to apply or live by these texts on a daily basis.
That is naturally unacceptable.
It is high time that institutions restricted their scope to actual cross-border issues and stopped decking out the European cart with powers which they are taking away from national authorities.
The European Union needs rules governing environmental liability as a matter of urgency.
You have not integrated it anywhere.
We debate these issues intensively and seriously and we should be entitled to expect likewise from the Commission, even where it is merely submitting a paper.
What is your schedule, how long will it take you to produce a positive list?
When we have finalised our proposal on the new rules and decided on the most suitable legal form, I will be happy to present our viewpoint to you.
We nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for enlargement to take place.
One of the major problems in this area was that if you do something wrong, especially when it comes to revenue of the European Union, then this will be termed an irregularity in one country and a crime in another.
Whether or not the reforms succeed depends, to a very large extent, on the Commission' s own initiative.
I believe we should set the seal on this point at tomorrow' s vote.

The day before yesterday I was pleased to hear an interview given by the KFOR commander showing how much better matters in connection with this in Kosovo were starting to be, particularly as regards security, crime levels had been restored to an acceptable level.
However, in the future, the Union will also have to increase its own input in promoting the use of renewable energy and ensuring that renewable energy is launched without obstacles on the market.
The advent of the euro at the beginning of last year unleashed enormous competitive forces within European business which are being met by a merger wave of quite unprecedented proportions.
We are working on further block exemptions and guidelines which will all take into account the particular situation of SMEs, and our White Paper on modernisation will also improve the situation of SMEs, first by eliminating the bureaucracy resulting from the present notification system, and secondly, by making Article 81(3) directly applicable, which will benefit SMEs in particular.
Mr President, quite a few towns and cities within the European Union have to contend with deprivation.
I am sure the President-in-Office of the Council is a very nice man and is very kind to his wife and his children and his dog.
Confidence in the European Union has been seriously damaged.
The Commission is also aware of concern about the possible intention of using the plant to produce weapons-grade material.
After each incident of improper use of this money, and certainly after fraud, the call for stricter control is more pronounced.
Madam President, I too am delighted that we are having this debate. I only regret that it has been so long in coming.
We shall then be able to achieve an environmentally respectable result.
With this directive, we have the chance to take a big step forward, but this presupposes that the Council' s position is not torn to shreds and weakened in Parliament' s reading of it.
But that is not to say that we are satisfied, and that everything in the garden is rosy.
The preparations the Commission has made so far are on the right track, although they do not go far enough if the European Parliament' s motions are anything to go by.
I would ask the Council to adopt it swiftly and I would ask Parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion.
Will a free Palestine be a truly democratic state and, therefore, reliable as a partner in peace?
That is my judgement at the moment.
Have you stopped to ask what kind of effect the debate we are having here and the statement delivered by the Council Presidency last weekend are having in Austria itself?
The issue which we should all raise, and I did so myself, in a diplomatic way, a while ago, concerns the very substance of Security Council Resolution 12/99.
Secondly, it is also clear that reform will require some new investment in training for skills and in technology.
We are pleased that all the rural areas of the Union may be involved in LEADER+, but we believe that it is necessary to concentrate Community resources in the less-favoured regions in order to facilitate the process of socio-economic cohesion within the Union, and that state governments should not divert these resources towards objectives other than cohesion.
(Applause)
This issue can no longer be ignored by Parliament, the Council or the Commission.
Of course I can go back and see whether we can find the necessary information.
She knows me well enough to understand that at all stages in the five years in which we worked together in this House, there has never been a single occasion on which I have refused to account in full, formally and in detail for everything I have done.
That would be a similar situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, as a Member for the French Atlantic coast, for Vendée, I should first like to express the disgust of the people who are the victims of the Erika oil slick in the face of these disasters, caused not by a natural disaster such as the hurricane which has also just struck us, but by a crime.
France contributes 17% of the European budget yet will receive only 8% of the regional Structural Funds.
We have calculated that the cost of recycling cars does not constitute more than one per cent of the price of a new car.
All the international community has to do is implement Resolutions 332, 248, 245 and 194.
This has chipped away at the results that regional policy has produced.
Anyone travelling to Strasbourg by car or by rail would have been able to see for themselves that storms raged in Alsace as well.
Nevertheless, we cannot deny that some positive political progress has been made in the Middle East of late.
The Commission is the executive and Parliament ought to have no desire whatsoever to take on this role, for the sake of its own independence; but Parliament is a supervisory body, and what better forum could there be in which to expound the reasoning behind one' s decisions than a democratically-elected Parliament, indeed an ongoing parliamentary discussion?
Turning quickly to the section of the resolution on fighting fraud, corruption, mismanagement and nepotism: the major new proposal of the report concerns reporting by Commission officials of perceived wrong-doing.
In 1998, 123 referrals were made to the Court of Justice for non-application or non-transposition and 25% of environmental directives were not applied or transposed.
The other amendments are unacceptable.
I would therefore end up with a situation where a directive on the service provision card might well be in place, but with the hurdles facing the business world being so high, in reality no one would apply for the card. Alternatively, I might have no directive at all.
All the macroeconomic models we are working on show that, over the last decade, more than one third of the convergence achieved in the regions whose development is lagging behind would not have taken place without the Structural Funds.
It is nonetheless clear that the cost will be borne jointly by manufacturers and consumers.
Most importantly though, we must have a brave and ambitious long-term vision for reform, not just of the WTO but also of the ILO, the United Nations and above all, of the financial institutions, specifically the IMF and the World Bank.
Yet, through LEADER, there can be no doubting its effectiveness as an integral part of broader EU and national policy.
In this respect we wish you every success. However, we are also aware of our role as the Commission' s watchdog.
From an Irish perspective, I know that the Irish Department of the Environment is already having consultations with motor industry representatives to ensure that appropriate collection centres are put in place in Ireland in the near future to deal with end-of-life vehicles.
You may therefore be satisfied on this point, since zoning will have been completed for all the countries affected by Objective 2.
This is a limited sector of the economy which creates hardly any jobs and is not competitive on the world scale.
Forms of state aid that require an effort from the beneficiary are to be supported.
Europe' s message, the European Union' s message to the world should not be one of arrogance or even European nationalism, no; it must be one of cooperation, partnership and peaceful development.
Of course, we are also talking about effectiveness of decisions and functioning institutions in a Union of 27 plus Member States.
The whole credibility of Europe is at stake today, before we invite the recent and still vulnerable democracies of the former eastern bloc to join us tomorrow.
I sometimes have the impression that the more radical the proposals made here in this Chamber sound, the more applause they receive.
We must understand that the bigger picture is important when it comes to the environmental impact of cars.
These two considerations are diametrically opposed to each other, and I really fail to grasp how such a proposal can end up on the table.
According to the general regulations, however, any technical assistance scheme which can claim a connection with a Community initiative must be proposed under Article 20, and not Article 23.
People need to understand that if they commit fraud they will be prosecuted, and that is not the case at the moment.
Austria is a stable democracy; one in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed under the constitution and are afforded the protection of an independent judiciary.
This Parliament' s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties, making proposals capable of solving them to the Commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes.
Madam President, this is an historic moment, as it is now, at last, quite clear to us all that the European Union has gradually developed into a community of values.
. (DA) The European project began as a partnership between States.
I propose to confine my comments to two areas.
As for fishing, there is nothing in your programme to tell us that the predatory exploitation of fishing grounds, which has gone as far as to wipe out entire species of fish, will certainly prove fruitful in the future.
In France, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, when this was being ratified, many members of the French parliament were reassured to hear that, in any case, the Council would remain free to choose and could retain unanimous decision-making.
We have no problem, Mr Newton Dunn, in repeating this information to you in writing, but we will not be able to go any further than what has been said here, because that meets the requirements of the Treaty exactly.
By its very nature, however, the European Union is, and will remain, a complex and convoluted multi-governmental institution.
Quite clearly, we are now paying the price for our lack of concern.
It is a question of objectives that must be pursued as a priority.
Secondly, in my view, while the training that we are talking about should not be compulsory - after all there is no compulsory training on anything in the Commission - it should be essential. And, since it should be essential, I would hope that everybody would make certain that they had adequate gender training.
I was reassured that this was also the view of Prime Minister Barak and President Arafat, when they met on Monday.
We therefore need resources available to spend before proceeding to enlargement, so that we can at last establish a European monitoring body responsible for monitoring quality of life and living conditions, with the aim of creating a new world where such tragedies will no longer occur.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would once again like to thank Mrs Ahern for her work as rapporteur on this proposal, since she has contributed, in collaboration with the other Members, to the achievement of a very reasonable final result, which in some respects even improves on the proposals of the Commission itself and, of course, on what, from a budgetary point of view, the Council had initially accepted.
The wind triumphed over electricity pylons, roofs, traffic signs and, ultimately over the forest.
- (FR) In voting against this report, we are acting as spokespersons for all the men and women who in Seattle and throughout Europe expressed their rejection of a world reduced to strict commercial logic.
That being the case, since ALTENER is the only EU programme to have the exclusive aim of promoting renewable energy sources, it will certainly be have a key role.
- (DE) I am making this statement on behalf of the CSU.
I do not agree with the paragraphs in relation to Parliament.
Amendment No 23 involves the Commission' s having to adopt quality standards for reusable components.
I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs Mr von Wogau, Mr Langen, Mr Rapkay and Mr Jonckheer, as well as the Commission, for their excellent cooperation.
Deploying the German multipurpose ship "Neuwerk" - it is right outside my front door in Cuxhaven - entailed the swift provision of European neighbourly help.
I have always given the rapporteur my backing in this respect.
He went back to work, rewrote his report and took into account the very many suggestions, but had to face nearly another 100 amendments in the second round.
Moreover, the von Wogau report, which the European Parliament has just voted on, supports it in so doing.
Mr President, today the people of Northern Ireland see a strange irony.
You mentioned the Commission being able to withhold grants and subsidies from countries who are acting in the way that France is acting.
It is true, once again, and I accept this objectively, that there are still real legal problems.
However, I come from an area in Northern Germany where the forestry industry predominates and I can tell you that we are already feeling the effects of the immense damage.
I also think that a great effort has been made to arrive at intelligent recycling of materials, a reduction of polluting waste and the promotion of technological innovation.
I repeat: we must reassure public opinion in those countries that wish to join but we need to provide public opinion in our own Member States with even greater reassurance.
We should therefore put this situation right immediately.
However, in the case of the United Kingdom, we believe they go further than that in a manner which is unacceptable.
Have faith in the successful results which LEADER has had so far.
The system currently in force creates transparency, affords enterprises legal certainty and has, without a shadow of a doubt, led to discipline and acted as a deterrent on account of the notification requirement.
Let us not pretend that national parliaments are able to exercise effective democratic control of government activities in this area.
Your proposals must also include making double hulls mandatory and enforcing observance, at last, of the ban on degassing at sea.
Beyond this, I think that implementing MAGPs in a mechanical way will no longer be appropriate in the coastal regions that have been affected.
I have long believed in the need to set out our views on human rights issues, including Tibet, firmly and candidly to the Chinese authorities.
We need, therefore, to find a way forward towards these political ends and objectives, to address, not merely the scepticism but the greatest enemy, the apathy which you identify.
We have not restricted ourselves to the three so-called leftovers, which is, in any case, an incorrect label.
LEADER must now move into the implementation phase.
Mr President, having devoted itself over the last 40 years to establishing a common internal market, the House now faces the major new task of creating an area of freedom, security and justice, a task which we will only be able to master successfully if all the institutions of the Union work together towards this ambitious goal with mutual respect and consideration for each other' s competence.
For example, one wonders how a development partnership will prove its cooperative spirit or its representative capacity, as required by action 2 in paragraph 33 of the guidelines.
The situation there is totally unacceptable.
That is the only way in which we can help to restore the legitimacy of the project of an enlarged European Union in the eyes of every European citizen, an enlarged Europe based on respect for rights and freedoms, with a guarantee of personal safety and safety of property and with effective legal protection, in other words, a Union rooted in the political values which underpin contemporary democracies.
This is going to lead us to make 'Culture 2000' the programme of the citizen.
Approximately ten per cent of lead production is to be found in cars, but also cadmium, chromium, mercury and other very dangerous substances.
We daily hear the need to promote a wider and deeper Europe.
Firstly, I should like to ask the Commissioner - and I am convinced that my request will fall on fertile ground - to ensure that more attention is paid to the issue of safety, be it on the roads, on the waterways or at sea.
If we do not obtain a framework of Community regulations which is sufficiently clear, strict and trenchant, then those Member States that wish to do so must be allowed to take the necessary steps to protect their people and their territory, in the same way that the United States succeeded in learning the lessons of the Exxon Valdez disaster by making double hulls compulsory and banning all vessels more than 20 years old from their waters.
Honourable Member, I should just like to stress that both Denmark and numerous other Member States are having problems interpreting the directives and transposing them into national law.
Third point: interregional cooperation, the importance of strand C. The Commission shares the observations made by this House regarding the importance of strand C, interregional cooperation.
Finally, we call for a change to the balance and method by which the funds are disbursed.
The EU must not do him an invaluable PR service.
We have endeavoured to provide material help.
Current programmes must be accelerated.
Regarding the many adjectival descriptions of Europe you addressed in your speech - an energetic Europe, an enterprising Europe, a Europe that has a human face and is inclusive - let me, in a word dear to the heart of my Liberal colleagues, give in one adjective, one description of the kind of Europe we want to see in your plan for governance: an enabling Europe.
I was in fact shocked to read in the report, assuming this is true, how an Albanian doctor, who was working in the hospital in the Serbian quarter of Mitrovica under what must have been great difficulties, ultimately had to give up helping his kinsmen in this hospital because there were constant threats on his life.
It would be unlikely to have much impact on the Chinese authorities and we already have effective channels of communication with the Tibetan community in exile.
Some members of the Committee, however, supported Mrs Stenzel' s proposal and wordings.
Mr President, with the implementation of INTERREG III, European cooperation policy is entering a new phase.
I refer to point 9.
Do please try to make the international organisations democratic.
One of you expressed a wish that these urban issues should not be confined to the URBAN initiative.
If the European citizenship that we all want to see is to come into being, if the mandate that our President, Mrs Fontaine has staked on a closer relationship between the Union and Europe' s citizens is to be effective, our citizens must be able to feel that we are acting with some urgency.
On the subject of human rights, I have received two proposals for additions: one from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party for an item entitled 'Cambodia' and the other from the Group of the Greens, for an item entitled 'Pinochet' .
We are clearly, once again, returning to enlargement, which must be put into practice in tandem with the extension of the area of security, peace and freedom.
It does not compete with the cultural policies implemented in the various Member States.
This motion asks the Commission to present a report to Parliament within six months on the feasibility of this tax. It also asks for an examination of the pressures and financial sanctions which could be applied against countries which encourage tax evasion or which maintain tax havens.
Mr President, I would like firstly to express my appreciation to the Commission for the improvement represented by the XXVIIIth report on competition policy in the Union, when compared to previous reports.
(Applause)
Firstly, because it clearly stipulates the environmental objectives.
We are concerned, therefore, as others have said, at the number of amendments which seek to exclude even further some of society' s most excluded, by aiming for a very narrow definition of "refugee".
The new Commission has not put forward nearly enough on this subject, and what it has put forward is woefully inadequate!
This CIP has encouraged the development of best practice models in the economic, social and environmental sectors.
We are trying to arrange that there will be four categories for which funding is available.
Ambition will be needed, given the mammoth task which awaits us.
I know it takes longer, but should we not always have a show of hands first?
I trust that these measures will, in a few months, give rise to a clear and convincing legal instrument - a directive, possibly - which will put an end, once and for all, to these 21st Century pirates, who deprive us all of the wealth and beauty of the sea.
I was deeply disappointed at the news this week that the peace talks between Israel and Syria had been suspended.
Madam President, the presentation of the Prodi Commission' s political programme for the whole legislature was initially a proposal by the Group of the Party of European Socialists which was unanimously approved by the Conference of Presidents in September and which was also explicitly accepted by President Prodi, who reiterated his commitment in his inaugural speech.
Is the Council aware of the social problems caused by the export of food by the EU to developing countries at prices below the cost of production?
With regard to what you were saying, it makes me think that the criticism levelled at the Council, apart from being formulated in a very specific way of which we also take note, does not actually refer to the opacity, shall we say, of the legislative process, but rather almost to an excess of transparency.
We need to examine national laws in order to check that they comply with the rules of the Basle committee and how the dissemination of these rules can be stepped up.
I should like to make the following points: Turkey is now a candidate country.
We must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end.
(PT) By proposing to apply the principle of subsidiarity in Community competition policy, the Commission is devolving to national authorities and courts the responsibility to take decisions and deal with abuses of dominant positions in relation to company agreements which create market distortion. Issues of mergers and state aid however, still remain within the notification system.
My fear is that such deficiencies in EU legislation could lead to turf wars between national and EU bodies, who should be working together rather than against one another.
In a debate, there is always the danger that we will repeat much of what has already been said.
Subject: Working time directive Can the Commission say what action it proposes taking to ensure a level of protection, equivalent to that provided by the 1993 working time directive, for non-consultant hospital doctors, who were excluded from that directive and again from the proposal for a Council amending directive (COM(98)0662-C4-0715/98 - 98/0318(SYN))?
We acknowledge that this report does have one good point - it shows that the working class majority in society can expect nothing from the European institutions in terms of safeguarding their living conditions, and still less of improving them.
The best form of prevention we can offer for the future is the sure knowledge we can offer charterers that they will be heavily penalised in civil, criminal and financial terms if they are not extremely vigilant regarding the matter of the safety of the vessels they select.
The suspension of the talks between Syria and Israel is not the only delay affecting the peace process in the Middle East.
Article 56 of the Treaty, prohibiting currency speculation or any interference in the free movement of capital, must be removed so that damaging currency speculation may be checked by means of political control.
I suggest to the Commission, as a repository of an enormous amount of detailed information on enlargement, to present a document, that explains the value of enlargement, not just in budgetary and financial terms but in a broader sense; a document, like the Cecchini report before the Single Act, that explains to people in a way which engages them in the debate that this is the grand, historic challenge facing Europe today.
, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. (IT) Mr President-in-Office, on listening to the various interventions, you have understood that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also among the leaders of Parliament' s political groups, the decision prevailed - although not without some disagreement - to put our faith in the Portuguese Presidency, instead of creating more difficulties by postponing the start of the Intergovernmental Conference.
As your rapporteur has requested, I shall send you the detailed information regarding the system for the implementation of this strand.
I welcome Parliament's support for that.
The next item is the joint debate on:
The European Parliament and its Committee on Constitutional Affairs ought instead to have been more specific and concentrated on just a few points in addition to the Council decision in Helsinki, so stating what it considered to be the most pressing matters for discussion, including the question of establishing a public prosecutor to deal with crimes against the institutions of the European Union and their financial interests.
It is the posts which should possibly be made permanent and not necessarily those employed on a temporary basis.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
As far as we are concerned, after producing the opinion expected from the Commission, according to this same Article 48 of the Treaty, we are pleased that the conference can thus begin earlier than anticipated.
The resolution requires the European Parliament to have increased influence over the Intergovernmental Conference.
For us this is straightforward: in the case of new vehicles it should be the manufacturer since this will also compel manufacturers to design and build recyclable cars.
If their confidence is damaged this is reflected in shopping decisions. This in turn has a dramatic effect on farmers, producers and industry generally.
We must not take anything for granted in terms of how we get the European economy restructured.
I look to the Portuguese Presidency in particular to build on some of the tremendous work which was done by the Finnish Presidency in bringing forward coordinated plans and action between the Member States.
I am convinced that this is an error of judgement.
So what was done at Amsterdam?
Clear progress must be visible.
Finally, the amendment tabled by the rapporteur is perfectly logical and I can, therefore, give it my wholehearted support.
People will remember that this article, dealing with the transfer of immigration policy to the Community level, stipulated that for five years decisions would still be taken by unanimous vote in the Council and thereafter the Council would assess a potential opportunity to amend the system.
This is why we will most probably grant the discharge tomorrow.
The position of Parliament in this whole procedure is somewhat unclear.
The CEO of the authority would be somebody who typically would be known, who might appear regularly on television talking about issues relating to food, particularly in relation to the good news stories surrounding food in relation to nutrition, diet and such issues, so that if another food crisis comes along consumers will be aware of the existence of the authority.
The framework programme on culture is replacing the present Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael programmes.
Madam President, on a point of order.
And, in this regard, you are going to the heart of democracy as it relates to distribution policy and people' s social conditions, which are what voters wish to influence when they go to the polls.
We shall proceed to vote on the PPE-DE Group' s request that the oral question regarding the capital tax be withdrawn from the agenda.
Report (A5-0009/2000) by Mr Graça Moura, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a single financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation ('Culture 2000') (C5-0327/1999 - 1998/0169(COD))
Fortunately, I am on the Committee on Regional Policy.
Thirdly, promoting cooperation between cultural operators.
Here in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, among you, I wish to assure you that in the negotiations for the programmes which are only just beginning - Mr Hatzidakis asked me a question about this - as far as Member States are concerned, your observations will certainly be taken into consideration.
I think we can also thank the rapporteur once again.
It is concerned with increased integration which, as part of a duplicitous package, involves increased repression and control.
Yes, Mr Evans, I feel an initiative of the type you have just suggested would be entirely appropriate.
This must also be a main priority in the work of the Commission. It must be complemented with a forthright fight against racism and intolerance so that we may come to recognise, in practice, the evolution of a Union which has become a magnet for the rest of the world and an immigration zone, given its prosperity and seasonal demographics.
The truth is though, that the Commission' s guidelines do not fully meet these objectives.
In the tradition of our continent, this realisation is an important one which merits recognition.
This also applies, for example, to the very real projects which the Committee on Industry has introduced.
If we are to have an effective single market that makes European industry globally competitive and generates wealth and employment for all Europeans, then we must have a level playing field.
I am sure that this study - if carried out objectively, with knowledge of the financial markets and their mechanisms on an international level - will show that it is neither suitable nor possible, not only in terms of its application, but also as a means of achieving the proposed objectives.
In this way, a decision-making system can be created that is more effective, clearer, more open and more democratic.
The form the aid takes is important.
The Council could not be moved, not even when the precursor programmes Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael finished.
It is necessary to have a clear division of responsibility among all levels of authority and to be partners, rather than competitors when it comes to policy.
The main thread of the discussion is about whether or not the manufacturer, the vendor, or whoever, should take the end-of-life vehicle back without any cost.
Yes, I am in favour of such a tax, but it is not what we are going to vote on tomorrow.
The Commissioners taking part are President Prodi, Vice-President Kinnock, Mr Reding and myself.
The common position is a reasonable compromise.
When will we see a return to cleanliness and the end of this devastating accident?"
Underground networks?
In the two documents, strong emphasis is placed on the need to define new forms of European governance and, to this end, to introduce a new agenda for the Commission, establishing more stringent priorities in the pursuit of the goal of full employment, through more efficient coordination of the economic and social policies of the States, and, primarily - allow me to stress this - of the nations that have joined the monetary union and which must be enabled to become the first example of closer cooperation.
Commissioner, it is impossible to overstate the importance of this reform.
If there is a choice between investing in innovation projects or injecting most of the funding into bringing on deprived areas, we would opt for the latter as this does the most to benefit equality.
For the first time since the Second World War, a party which is openly pro-Nazi, racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a European country.
I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen, to support me in bringing home to the Commission the fact that what most Brussels offices are lacking is not so much the wherewithal for providing aid as the good will.
There are reputable companies too.
After all, recycling and the re-use of components form part of a sector which is not necessarily loss-making.
There is no future for a Union which is merely a geo-strategic concept or for a Union which is merely a free trade zone.
I believe that the Commission' s proposal should make provision for greater transparency in terms of the way the various institutions function, but I think that there is always room for improvement in this matter.
A government must have more nerve and more courage.
The competition policy has, as far as these resources permitted, contributed to this event.
However, I am sure that I do not need to remind you of the importance of a branch of the economy which is both an economic and a social factor, which affects not only Germany but all the coastal regions of Europe.
Such is life.
What conclusions has the Commission already drawn or what conclusions is it going to draw?
Given this situation, the report approved by Parliament must highlight the need for measures that aim unequivocally to fight relative poverty and unemployment: measures such as the appropriate use of structural funds for these purposes, which are often misspent, with centralised state policies and the modernisation of telecommunication and communication systems, with the particular aim of integrating the least developed regions into the Trans-European rail Networks, which are due in 2007.
It focuses on non-technical elements, helping to build energy efficiency infrastructure, and the purpose of the programme is to create an environment in which investments and energy efficiency will be promoted.
However, my question for a very long time has been this: what happened with previous policies?
So I want to put this question to you. When human health is at stake, or there is the possibility that human health will be seriously affected, should we not perhaps carry out a cost-benefit analysis?
There are preparations which can be made and they are specified and set out with the full reassurances in the reform strategy, but enactment of change in the legislation is obviously of fundamental importance to the operation of the new system.
We need to ensure that job creation initiatives are in place to promote employment opportunities in the small- and medium-sized enterprise sector in rural parts of Europe as well.
We certainly do not want market organisation for forests, but maybe we should set up a system, perhaps in conjunction with the private insurance sector, which will make it possible to mitigate the implications for the victims in some way.
I think we must do what we can to see that all Members can receive their own national channel.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his statement.
I find this a well-balanced formula which does not preclude a number of other things.
A solution is needed to the Palestinian refugee problem - these are the largest group of refugees in the world, numbering nearly 5 million people - an indication of the enormous challenges ahead.
Thank you, Mr van Velzen.
Mr President, this report is positive but, actually, we need more than this.
The amendment to the directive on today's agenda does not therefore affect the existing harmonisation of the transport of dangerous goods in the Community.
The negative conclusion is that the great effort made has been more efficient in harmonising the European regions' GDP and productivity than in harmonising its levels of unemployment.
Mr President, as all the previous speakers have done, I should like in turn to thank Mr Berend and congratulate him on the quality of his report.
May I say something about costs.
The resignation marked the end of a bitter struggle between an increasingly confident Parliament and a European Commission mired in allegations of scandal.
The strongest regional centres also continue to grow faster than the general European average, whereas many southern European and northern areas are developing considerably more slowly.
Mr Florenz asks whether Parliament will have a say in that.
However, I do wonder about the wisdom of this.
Given the need to encourage young farmers to continue in farming it is vitally important that they are well-informed about developments in the common agricultural policy.
In reality, however, the Commission communication does not contain a single provision for the Member States with these integrated approaches for social and employment policy aspects.
Is it the product of mere foolishness or, more probably, of a deliberate strategy, which is the same throughout the world?
I therefore ask the Commission to stop doing so and, on the contrary, to help those who make their living from the sea to proceed to new investments, which they urgently need.
If so, does it intend to do so within a general redefinition of the region, avoiding as far as possible the multiplication of micro-States, as has tended to happen elsewhere, and reuniting the parties, in this case Kosovo and Albania?
There will be friendship, calm, openness but also a certain strictness in the enlargement process.
By putting finance at the helm, this has reinforced the demands of profitability and toughened the operating conditions everywhere.
Mr President, I would like, in beginning my speech regarding the White Paper, to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau.
In order to remove these causes, one has to look at what is happening in the countries in question.
However, it annoyed me when I heard today that the Commission is now saying that it only wishes to discuss the interim report with Parliament on an informal basis.
The question is: who prosecutes?
In order to fully achieve its objective, the money supply released by such a tax must be redistributed among the poorest countries.
Nevertheless, rumour has it that it plans to buy Candu reactors of the type acquired by Pakistan and India which were used for nuclear weapons.
Surely this is contrary to interests of public order within the Member States.
That concludes the debate.
It is also clear that if we take on new tasks - which we will surely be asked to do by the Council and Parliament - we will have to identify so-called "negative priorities" and drop those negative priorities in order to create spare capacity.
However, the Council then took another direction at the very next summit in December and took a huge step backwards by deciding what we had absolutely rejected, i.e. that the Council should continue to be responsible for implementation, that the regulatory committee would be attached to the Council and that, where possible, Gibraltar would still be used to exert pressure.
I would like once again to thank all who helped in this conciliation process.
I believe this system is also more suited to practical needs.
Legal certainty is important for businesses: this is a subject, the importance of which the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, emphasised in her last intervention - and I am very grateful to her for the way she always takes the widest interest in subjects regarding the single market, including, in this case, competition.
With a new Commission and a new Parliament up and running the momentum for reform is now as strong as it ever has been and probably ever will be.
However, I would like to say, Mr Newton Dunn, that the results of this kind of process for transparency are quite obvious to us and we consider them to be unquestionable.
Our committee noted that innovative and effective action to combat and prevent crime at local level would require a whole array of measures including the incorporation of crime prevention in town planning, action to prevent juvenile delinquency, the reintegration of offenders, and models for effective local cooperation between the various parties involved, for example the police, the courts and social services.
These are the classic symptoms of continued obstruction by national governments - bureaucratic red-tape blocking market entry.
Therefore, the number of issues decided by a qualified majority will increase.
How can the Union respond to the challenges of global development in a way that the less developed areas can remain a part of that development?
It is clear from some of the reports that have been presented to Parliament' s plenary sitting today that Europe' s 25 most prosperous regions enjoy a level of unemployment which is five times lower than in the 25 least prosperous regions.
That is why we should bear in mind what was said by the French writer Vivienne Forestier, who described the state of the world in terms of the economy' s reign of terror.
Consequently, we see poverty and exclusion as the greatest enemies of peace and freedom.
These will be our major guidelines for action over the next five years.
Hence, to my mind, that includes having the courage to amend Article 4 of the EC Treaty, which defines the Union in traditional neoliberal style as an open market economy with free competition. The same applies to Article 105, in my view, for the European Central Bank must at last be given the political task as enshrined in the Treaty, of using its monetary policy to promote sustained growth and employment.
The White Paper requires only a single aspect of the issue to be re-examined: the exchange of confidential information.
It is, however, very much in doubt whether Brussels can make available the billions of dollars which the Israeli and Syrian authorities require from their peace patron, the United States, not to mention the heavy, equally costly, security guarantees in case of an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan.
We must also critically examine the classification societies.
Such important areas include the Balkans and the Adriatic region, but, in my opinion, we should not ignore cooperation with Russia either.
And since this is St. Valentine' s day, as a former Mayor of a regional city, I propose that we should all declare our love for all the European regions which need that love.
So, there is no answer to all your questions but this does not change the system of the scientists that we use today or the system of experts that we use today.
I cannot imagine the Commission taking initiatives in order to de-Europeanise or re-nationalise in a thorough manner, but I have my concerns and questions nevertheless.
I am particularly intrigued by how the Commission considers bringing this about.
. (FR) Considering the employment situation in the Community and the European Union' s declared ambition to steadfastly attack unemployment, the analysis of mergers carried out by the Commission should take elements other than competition into consideration.
On the other hand, it manipulates the principle of positive discrimination. This is a politically correct fancy which can be just as harmful, as shown by the US precedent.
What is happening in France, Mr President, appears prima facie to be a case of discrimination against other EU nationals on grounds of nationality and as such to be in breach of the Treaties.
This has obliged us to abstain from the final vote, because we do not understand how we can ignore the environmental question when deciding which projects must be financed and we do not understand how we can reject the idea that each Member State can dedicate, to URBAN projects, that portion of the Structural Funds which it has not spent in accordance with Community programmes.
We now have a number of months to have the necessary debate on the Commission's ideas on the White Paper on the establishment of a European food authority.
It is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation.
Openings and real growth are being hampered and the sudden influx or withdrawal of speculative capital is threatening the economies of many countries, to the point of collapse, as in Asia, Russia and Brazil.
In other words, fifteen people are going to have discussions and decide, behind closed doors, on the fate of more than 350 million individuals.
Central to this is the attempt to produce and engender responsibility.
The INTERREG initiative, launched in 1990 to prepare the border regions for a Europe without borders and therefore without nations, sits comfortably within this philosophy.
This PPE/DE-PSE resolution commends the initiative taken by fourteen Member States to apply pressure to Austria by organising a sort of diplomatic boycott.
Tell me what national parliament, for example, is handed all preliminary investigation documents.
It has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind.
We need to open that debate.
We look to it to challenge the UK Government, to ensure that the private sector, which surely must be providing the major impetus for Structural Funds expenditure, is involved in the planning stage.
The European Union is in the process of finding its soul and getting some steel in its spine.
My comments start from the premise that we are talking about an upright individual in gainful employment.
Surely what we should be doing, and I hope you will agree, Commissioner, is engaging the person to do the job on the basis of their capability, and we should not enshrine such bigotry and prejudice, no matter how sincerely held.
We in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left therefore want as comprehensive and consistent a set of regulations as is humanly possible in this area.
But we should not kid ourselves: a comprehensive Middle East peace deal comes with a hefty price tag.
I would remind you that car manufacturers have admitted that they can live with the directive; the costs are not excessive: recycling a car costs less than 1% of the price of a new car.
The aim of these regional policies, which, of course, are implemented under the jointly agreed European guidelines in each Member State, i.e. each Member State is responsible for implementing this programme, is to increase opportunities for work for both men and women.
Will Israel share Jerusalem and the water of the River Jordan?
Only the Amsterdam Treaty lasted a year and a half and that was because everyone knew you had to wait for the results of the British election if you were going to have any outcome from that IGC so that was a different reason.
.
I am therefore very proud to say that the skilled Austrian forestry workers are also prepared.....
They must focus on service to people and commitment to achieving freedom for each individual, without forgetting, naturally, that all this cannot and must not conflict with the need to create business, to invest and risk, and in an ordered and focused system, entrepreneurs are able to make a substantial contribution to social growth solidarity.
I would like to tell him that communications with Madrid are usually more fluid and, therefore, I hope to see him there soon.
We are very happy to proceed as rapidly as possible.
We had floods in Ireland also and I want to express my sympathy with the people in Ireland who suffered from these.
In doing so, we need, no less, to reinvent the European Union, but without destroying the present Union.
That is not how you combat racism and a swing to the right.
It is just as important for no-one to be able to or have to refuse the European Parliament or its committees any documentation.
With every single geographical extension to the area covered by the EU, we have seen how extensions in breadth have been followed by intensive extensions in depth, and that is precisely what the draft resolution from the Committee is contemplating, especially in paragraph 7 which says that there should be more thorough integration in depth.
These two proposals contribute considerably to the implementation of one of the four key principles of the internal market for the freedom to provide services.
Only if the population can stay in the countryside will the quality of life in the countryside also be permanently assured.
What action do you intend to take to enhance the place of immigrants in our society and to guarantee proper protection for asylum-seekers?
I believe that the rapporteur is simply playing with figures.
I consider, however, that the mention of any real convergence of average regional development levels in Europe offers a somewhat over-simplified view of the situation and, unfortunately, this is often the message taken up in the press and in some speeches.
Finally, our last commitment is to improve quality of life.
I really think that people should be extremely cautious.
The Culture 2000 programme was finalised at the end of last year as a result of conciliation between Parliament and the Council.
We must move away from the outmoded federalist schemes promoted by those whose every idea on European matters comes from the Memoires of Jean Monnet.
However, problems will arise in particular from the fact that under PHARE, for example, funds are managed on an annual basis and allocation of appropriations is project-related, whereas INTERREG funds are multiannual and are allocated on a measures-related basis.
Please allow me to remark on how well-versed and well-informed he is on European affairs.
Madam President, today we have an appointment with hypocrisy.
It is high time there was peace in the Middle East.
This is very costly and it also causes very great social problems.
Commissioner, far too little is said in your paper about regional policy.
In fact, renewable energies unquestionably provide a way of achieving these objectives.
The best way of achieving our environmental objectives is to make the manufacturers our instrument both for collecting the money and for disposing and recycling of the cars.
In more general terms, this Presidency must start to change the behaviour and interaction of our people with minority groups and immigrants.
I regret that the Commission has found Amendment No 10 to be unacceptable as far as the three-month period and the role of the Member State in which the service is provided are concerned.
I would ask you to bring this specific case, which has to do with the ventilators on a particular floor, to the attention of the Quaestors, who are, in fact, responsible for the matter.
This led to strikes and smear campaigns by intransigent trade unions, whereupon the proposals were abandoned and replaced by a wishy-washy compromise.
Before the end of March, I propose to present a communication in which I will possibly present legislative texts, that is to say, amendments of specific directives so that discussions may begin in the Council and in Parliament.
I suppose that the first thing they say will be, 'let us see whether you are capable of reaching a fiscal agreement within the Union' .
Being much more democratic means greater participation by the European Parliament and allowing the Commission to exercise even more - yes, more - its ability to take the initiative.
We consider the competition policy to be responsible for all this and are totally opposed to it.
But it would have an overall remit, particularly, for instance, in requesting the authority to investigate particular areas requiring research.
This can be left as the Commission has proposed with the Member States ensuring the appropriate collection points for draining cars.
Mr Berend, you also mentioned, as did Mr Aparicio Sánchez, the lack of reform in the fisheries sector.
In fact, we all know that anyone who does not live within the perimeter of an Objective 2 region will find it all but impossible to obtain aid.
As for the other points, Mr Prodi, I will take economic and social policy as an example: the European social model is certainly experiencing a major crisis and it is certainly not coincidental that unemployment tops the list of problems that none of our policies has managed to resolve, but it is not certain that it can be resolved by going through a list of problems that we have discussed in the past, without having a clear idea or proposal which takes note of the fact that Europe contains economies that are growing at some of the most sustainable rates and that it is not by chance that these are the economies which have made labour market flexibility and enterprise their prime objective.
I end by stressing the need for the European Union to persist with such initiatives, which strive to eliminate inequalities between our regions, and to foster their harmonious development.
This will involve, for example, disposing of more than 32 million lots of used oil, removing break fluid, etc.
For this reason, 2000 will no doubt be a year for testing how the EU' s institutions respond to our citizens' demands for guaranteed freedom of movement, with respect for their rights and guarantees of security and stability though appropriate judicial protection.
This is serious, since it holds up the whole process of reconstruction in Kosovo.
Mr President, Commissioner, this debate is not a technical debate, contrary to what we may think.
The first is that we need a mature dialogue between the Council and the European Parliament.
Indeed, I had occasion recently to say as much to all the ministers responsible for urban policy at a meeting in Tampere.
In recent years, these have been amongst the programmes most eagerly accepted by the youngest and most dynamic citizens of the European Union.
(The sitting was closed at 9.55 p.m.)
We agree with this approach and despite the lack of funds, this evening' s result will serve to greatly boost this strategy and this opportunity for Europe, which will then give rise to an economic factor and a growth factor; culture then, and an institutional aspect, the basis for structuring a vast community, a prerequisite for economic growth, and not the complete opposite, as Europe, in its cultural habits, has perhaps been used to viewing things in the past.
I would, however, like to draw your attention to the fact that the President-in-Office, who has been so critical of Austria, has recently consigned the inhabitants of Macao to the sovereign rule of the People' s Democratic Republic of China.
Can we really continue to leave the Balkans out of the enlargement process, disregarding the fact that Croatia, Macedonia and other countries also have the right to a place in this House that is open to all?
They are still in training, as it were.
This proposal is still being discussed by the Council and Parliament on the basis of the codecision procedure.
I would like to appeal to those Ministers not to cast doubt upon that agreement which was really very difficult to reach.
Why do we not appoint a parliamentary committee of inquiry or get Members of Parliament involved in the team of experts which has just been announced by the Commission?
Mr President, may I start by saying that I would like to thank Commissioner Palacio very much for her clear, adequate and, at the same time, very firm response.
You are having to defend a certain Mr Schüssel, you are having to consort with Schüssel as he is today and who, as I understand it, was recently told not to come to the representatives of the Christian Democratic party' s summit meeting.
Nevertheless, the storms that took place in the last week of December showed us what the consequences can be and that there are major problems in store for us.
This would be a marvellous exercise in supervision!
I support the proposed deadline for the Commission being 30 September in a proposed amendment.
Secondly, speculative capital is extremely difficult to identify.
We have a serious situation in which in the European Union today, there is a genuine link between unemployment and poverty, as demonstrated by the very worrying fact that unemployment has reached, on average, 23.7% in the regions worst affected, regions which also happen to be poor areas, whilst in the 25 regions with the lowest unemployment, corresponding to the richer areas, unemployment stands at just 4%.
As a consequence of the continental legal tradition, consideration of whether certain agreements are anti-competitive or not depends more on an analysis of their clauses than on their effects on the market.
None of us think much of the principle of indiscriminate, all-round distribution, and the pilot projects need to act, as it were, like avalanches and trigger other similar projects.
That is why we sustain that conclusion as we continue to uphold the values and the law. Without fragility, without complacency, without ambiguity, but in the service of the whole Union and every Member State of the Union and its people.
I would point out that doing nothing will be the death of Tibetan culture and will mean the end of the Tibetan people.
These old vehicles are testimony to a culture and a passion which should be recognised and respected by Europe, if we are not to water down each of our specific identities.
Measures are based on an examination of the potential benefits and costs of action or lack of action; that is, the measures should be cost-effective and subject to review in the light of new scientific data and be clear about who is responsible for producing the scientific evidence necessary for a more comprehensive risk assessment, that is the burden of proof.
If the current draft is correct, then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today.
I can therefore fully support the demand to give Parliament unconditional right of access to documents. Otherwise, we cannot carry out our work.
We must also ensure excellence and transparency.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of our vote on your appointment we invited you to come here today.
I sincerely hope that, in the interests of improving the safety and quality of life of the people living in the Middle East, all the key protagonists will move forward quickly, in the very near future, so as to reach an overall agreement on all the key matters which need to be resolved.
This is environmentally unfriendly but also expensive and does not benefit the consumer either.
The question of flags of convenience must be reviewed within the IMO.
My question is this: is the Commission really prepared to comply with the adopted guidelines for gender mainstreaming at the Directorate-General for Development?
You will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in Sri Lanka.
I would like to divide the considerations raised during this debate on the von Wogau report into four groups. I do not consider these considerations to be criticisms of the Commission, but, on the contrary, fundamental contributions, since justified concerns have been expressed that we both want to overcome.
Your approach, which I am very much in favour of, since it is a coherent one, takes its inspiration from the issue of human rights; I wholeheartedly agree that we must embrace the cause of human rights.
All over the world, Europe' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities.
It is worth stressing that both Parliament and the Commission must put forward specific policies.
So we are working within this framework and not outside it.
It is an excellent report and we should all congratulate her on it.
While I recognise that some progress has been made in areas like port state control and minimal crewing standards, we are still faced with what our late colleague Ken Stewart used to call 'ships of shame sailing in and out of our European Union waters: rust buckets badly crewed'.
We propose to complement those provisions by defining the rights and obligations for officials to report suspected wrong-doing through internal channels but not exclusively within the same hierarchical line.
I would like to stress that culture is not only funded from this particular pot.
This may be proclaimed in the course of this year, with or without Israel' s support.
Reread the letter: The reference to the fundamental values of the Union is taken - and this is more than mere coincidence - from Article 6 of the Treaty, I repeat, Article 6 of the Treaty.
However, we must remember that, in addition to URBAN, a number of other Community instruments are also available in the social sector: innovative actions under Article 6 of the ESF regulation, pilot projects, particularly the new preparatory action for local commitment to employment that has just been introduced by the European Parliament under the 2000 budget and the EQUAL and INTERREG initiatives and mainstream ESF activities.
The debate is closed.
In this context the aim of stepping up networking between eligible zones under LEADER is very welcome.
The Structural Funds have played a key role in the development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries, mainly through the upgrading of roads, water treatment and related transport networks.
The truth is that the single market is not yet complete.
It is a programme based on real-life situations and issues, and it is therefore right to put concrete measures aside for the moment and focus on the major issues.
We are ready for it, whether it is a matter of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, on which work has started, the CFSP and the consequences for the institutions of the current defence policy negotiations, or an extremely difficult subject on which we are continuing to work: reorganisation of the Treaties.
The Commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under EQUAL either.
I believe we can learn something from this.
It involves taking action in a given policy area when the science is not clear, but where there are reasonable grounds for concern that the potential risks are big enough to require action.
I would like to ask what new steps the Council can take to safeguard their interests in the forthcoming world trade talks, in particular, against the ranch and factory-style production of the USA and New Zealand where economies of scale make competitive family farming for European farmers extremely difficult and where, of course, European standards of food safety do not apply.
This could be achieved by no longer insisting, in future, that the financial controllers furnish every single payment transaction with their approval stamp.
The Commission is paying particular attention to legal certainty for SMEs.
Thirdly, the European Union cannot and should not enlarge endlessly.
Will you do everything in your power to ensure that such last-minute cancellations do not happen again?
Including Jörg Haider' s party in a coalition government makes the presence of the extreme right an everyday fact of life in Europe, and sets an extremely dangerous precedent which may generate a serious aftermath in other Union Member States or in candidate countries.
I conclude by saying, on behalf of all my Conservative colleagues - and we are the second largest national delegation in this Parliament - that we pledge our full support to the Commission and to Mr Prodi in achieving this historic task.
This is why the mid-term review, provided for under Article 42 of Regulation 1260/99, will be of considerable importance.
This is exactly the task which a small, limited, European Public Prosecutor' s Office should carry out, not just at the criminal investigation stage, but also at the prosecution stage.
Mr President, the waste from end-of-life vehicles is one of our really major environmental problems in terms both of the quantity of waste and of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances.
I would suggest to you to take this matter up with your political groups and raise it in the Conference of Presidents.
In other words, we must succeed in linking the competition criteria that are necessary to the economy with those relating to managerial economics.
You have to assess all that and evaluate the science.
We have to hope that at the forthcoming IGC we will also end up with qualified majority decisions in the area of culture.
This argument is therefore not relevant.
There is nothing natural about these recurring disasters, they are the result of fate.
The common position stipulates that manufacturers should not only bear the cost, they should also take back end-of-life vehicles.
As for a ban on certain materials: of course we need one!
In three weeks' time, I shall be in Paris, and I shall continue this dialogue in one capital after another.
Subject: New INTERREG Initiative In point 1 of Annex 2 to its draft Communication on INTERREG entitled: Promotion of urban, rural and coastal development, the Commission authorises for the renovation and development of historic urban centres using a joint cross-border strategy.
It must be visible.
To give you an example, in both paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Dutch and German versions, the equivalents of the English words: "in so far as" have been omitted.
This means that any strategy for rural development must be based on agriculture' s internal potential while at the same time developing as many other activities as possible in order to prevent the desertification of the rural world.
I am sure that your answer to this will be "yes" but I would be grateful if you could tell me if these gentlemen are also aware as to what the consequences of this will be?
For that reason, as Mr Karas also said, we should give more attention to the policies that lead to a certain currency being overvalued in relation to its actual potential value.
As the French say, "ne jettons pas le bébé avec l'eau du bain" [let us not throw the baby out with the bath water], that is to say, in the protection of the Community' s financial interests, we must respect, on the one hand - as Mrs Theato has said - the competences of the Member States, but also other matters which affect the citizens, which affect the essential guarantees.
Indeed, it is unthinkable that we could put in place substantial and procedural legal regulations solely for one sector - that of the protection of financial interests - without first having created a European legal system.
I think that the vote has shown that although the common position of the Council has been toned down, the major groups here (and above all the German delegates of the major groups) have not, thank God, succeeded in destroying the heart of the directive, namely manufacturer responsibility.
This should serve as a guarantee for the receiving state that the employee or self-employed person will return to the sending state once the contract is completed and that they will be covered under insurance law in the event of illness or accident.
Whistle-blowers who act in good faith must be protected.
My final point is this.
At the moment, Article 52 of the staff regulations concerning dismissal on the grounds of gross negligence is never used.
ALTENER will make a valuable contribution to the combined efforts of the Member States.
This is a long way from offshoots such as the "Community criminal code" , the "European Public Prosecutor" or a European police force, with OLAF.
I hope the approach that we are following both demonstrates practicality and the imperative of giving this the attention which it deserves.
In terms of the people who build cars here in Europe, I am in favour of not making competition unequal but, in terms of environmental protection, I want freedom from costs for the last owner, to be financed by a special fund, and manufacturer responsibility for new cars, which will force them to assume responsibility for building recyclable cars!
When we suddenly refused this offer, an inflammatory and rabble-rousing propaganda campaign began that is beyond our comprehension to this day.
This is why I am voting against the report.
Fifthly, with the pending enlargement, I wonder whether the candidate counties will be able to play our game.
We need to break away from planned economy subsidies in favour of a liberal policy which fosters personal responsibility.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
I do not accept those views and reject them with some degree of passion.
It is particularly important for there to be clarity in relation to competition rules in view of EU enlargement.
There is now a new Commission.
Lastly, will we be able to recognise when this principle has been applied in legislation?
As far as Parliament is concerned, it is important for us to waste no time in getting down to a debate on the regulations that are to succeed this state aid code once it has expired.
It has caused me to reflect on two problems which have come to me recently in my own constituency.
In the twentieth century, we have had experience of the fact that democracies can find themselves at risk, and morality, values and the spirit which I mentioned can be mortally affected by viruses which have just one name: nationalist glorification, populism and the concept of racial superiority.
Pursuant to Article 3(8) of the Directive, terms and conditions of employment must be in keeping with the 'collective agreements which have been concluded by the most representative employers' and labour organisations at national level and which are applied throughout national territory'.
In future too, there will be a need to invest heavily in research into the use of renewable energy sources.
I believe that the remaining problems that we have faced within this Parliament, and which in large part stem from the fact that it is so difficult to strike the right balance, can be solved.
As I see it, this means that Mr Haider' s politics are already casting their shadow over this Parliament.
Decades will have gone by before we are able to determine the true extent of the damage sustained by the forestry industry.
No. Clearly, we shall all have to bear the cost of serious damage to the environment, but it will be very much greater.
In my opinion the committee drafting the report has not taken sufficient account of this, so on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I would draw the Commission' s attention to this issue.
This week we will be holding a debate here on the safety of sea transport, in light of the Erika disaster, and in the course of this year we will have to discuss our objectives in terms of the safety of air transport.
Madam President, I would also like to welcome the Commission' s initiative of presenting us with a report on its strategic objectives for the next five years, although I hope that it intends, in subsequent documents, to avoid the excess of generalisations and the vagueness of the text which we are examining today.
That is what Culture 2000 is about.
I do not see how you could, with the views that you hold, provide any answers.
Regarding the informal economy you mention in your report, I am well aware that the analysis and production of statistics on this subject are dependent on the reliability of data and, as Mr Cocilovo mentioned, there is clearly a problem with the reliability of this data.
I should therefore be very grateful indeed if the Chamber could support it.
I have also expressed concern in the past about the use of simple language and not using jargon, so that it becomes accessible to everyone.
These splendid cars do not constitute waste.
Too much money is wasted on propaganda and investigation bureaux, consultation and control, and a great deal of money ends up back in the country where it was collected in the first place.
Firstly, Mr President, although your two predecessors concentrated on developing an internal market and establishing the single currency, it has been left to you to develop this whole value of citizenship which is at the heart of European construction.
We are particularly in the debt of those who undertook the difficult deployment of all their crew.
Finally, you do highlight European research as being at the heart of our future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express the satisfaction I have in noting that the most remote regions, including the French overseas departments, have received some attention in connection with the INTERREG III initiative, opening up new perspectives for their cooperation with other countries in their geographical area, even though it is true that more could have been expected, particularly with regard to access to the various strands.
However, there is some concern over the lack of progress made despite the good and honest intentions expressed by the European Union.
Not to improve working conditions, for in increasing production with fewer workers, working conditions are made worse.
However, I am also thinking of my own region where my government is still debating whether to route the railway or to build a second motorway, the A32.
We are now waiting for Parliament to decide when it wishes to begin negotiations on the text.
As for the important educational task which the European Union must carry out as regards culture, one of the programme' s most obvious limitations is the level of funding - we have heard this several times - which censures the fact that the Council at least - certainly not the Commissioner - is not completely aware of the importance of cultural action: the document which prioritises the economic factor over social integration also bears witness to this.
The aim must not be to help the people but to make them take responsibility.
This does not mean that I do not see the need for competitiveness, particularly as I myself am an entrepreneur in an Objective 1 Region, that is in Brandenburg in the Federal Republic of Germany, and am only too aware of the problems and concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises.
We have asset inflation of global proportions.
Yet their lack of interest and involvement and sometimes even their distaste for all things political requires us to take specific action to tackle their problems.
It makes no sense for any worker within the Schengen area, since he or she will already have undergone a screening process in order to enter the first Member State, and the second Member State would be justified in rejecting ex ante the entry of that worker into its territory.
Secondly, we have the issue of companies' legal certainty.
Competition is an instrument and does not always produce ideal solutions.
I would like to emphasise the strong political message sent out by the European Council, reaffirming the importance that the Heads of State and Government of the Union attached to a fundamental project, together with various political guidelines and priorities which will turn this area into a reality, following a progressive strategy, within a time-frame of five years, and that, above all, the three components of this area should be in balance: freedom, security and justice.
In general the way in which sittings have been managed in recent weeks seems to me to have been very chaotic.
As you yourself said, Commissioner, these disasters or storms do not always have natural causes, and we think that these are the first signs of climate change.
In our opinion, it is clear that the left wing in the European Parliament, in association with the Austrian left wing which was defeated in the electoral arena, have mounted a petty political campaign resorting to the memory of a sinister but fortunately bygone period.
Efficiency: I am convinced that this reform will strengthen the protection of competition within the single market rather than weaken it.
The report addresses this and proposes integrating action to achieve equality between women and men in all aspects of work; it also recognises the importance of working with local and regional bodies which are those closest to the people to help ensure that all project results are mainstreamed.
There is nothing to prevent the spread of unemployment, nothing to protect employees, nothing to prevent the major concerns driving part of the population into poverty simply to make their shareholders richer still!
And we hope, during the Portuguese Presidency, to present the final version to the Justice and Home Affairs Council, taking account of the soundings that I have just mentioned.
That is not always the case.
Madam President, I too would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, Graa Moura, and Commissioner Reding, for their contribution to the creation of this programme.
Finally, we, as British Conservatives, are looking for a change in direction, towards the development of an independent competition authority.
I hope you do not mind if I make particular mention of the forests in my region, Lorraine, which have suffered enormous destruction.
(Parliament approved the request)
Mr President, I would like to take a brief, critical look at the accession negotiations with Malta and would like to express my gratitude to, and admiration for, the many NGOs that have at least rolled up their sleeves in order to save animals.
Mr President, there are two issues of principle in the Council' s draft directive.
We would be doing neither ourselves nor the citizens any favours if we were to christen the product we are proposing to deliver "EC service provision card" and not "EU service provision card" .
It also reminds us of the need for a new growth model, one that is firmly rooted in the culture of the Catholics who are involved in social problems, who see, in the civil community and the social interaction that that must be encouraged and facilitated among the public, the most natural instruments for building solidarity.
Mr Prodi, what can I say; what is there that is new?
Madam President, has my vote been counted? I was unable to vote electronically, since I do not have a card.
The Committee of Independent Experts said the Commission was not managing this properly.
This showed up the weaknesses of the European Union' s cultural policy activities once again.
Next, we have flags of convenience.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
This contrasts most unfavourably with the United Kingdom courts where Spanish fishermen successfully brought an action against the United Kingdom Government in circumstances which were very comparable.
Thank you, Mr Bowe, for that question.
Your Parliament may consider measures appropriate to counter that situation and then, Madame President and only then, may your Parliament consider interfering in the constitutional affairs of a country of the European Union.
Our group is reviewing a few amendments that were rejected by the committee.
It is also legitimate for there to be inter-company agreements and voluntary restraint agreements, since all these agreements make it possible to reduce the detrimental effects of competition on social or ecological requirements.
Romano Prodi promised a revolution.
Europe is not, nor can it become a classic federal state.
It did, however, table a number of amendments, most of which were adopted in the Council' s common position, particularly regarding the need to draw up a questionnaire and statements on the authorisation of some document in the context of the 'specification of the examination arrangements proposed by the examination body' .
A more balanced and more rigorous diagnosis would be welcome in my view.
Doing less but better - a central plank of the last Commission - needs to be the aim of this Commission too.
We have just recently had a case of using the precautionary principle when it came to ban phthalates in soft PVC toys; and of course, we apply it in several different environmental areas.
In the English version we refer to pharmaceutical and scientific organisations.
The concentration of economic and social problems in certain urban areas calls for targeted intervention taking full account of the complexity of the problems involved.
In short, we face a major challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the Kyoto Protocol, while at the same time promoting growth in our economies.
In reaching an agreement with Jörg Haider and his party, the Austrian Christian Democrats would at a stroke be confirming political respectability on right wing extremism and also giving them access to power - both of which they will utilise as a launching pad for even greater electoral success.
In closing, I would like to point out that the structural policies as a whole require greater flexibility so that they can adapt to changing circumstances and thereby respond to the new challenges and opportunities of the new millennium, for which we all hope for the best.
This situation shows that it would be a mistake to leave adopting measures for promoting employment to the exclusive internal control of the Member States, which is what the report proposes.
Not only the difference in income per capita but, above all, large disparities in employment continue to give cause for concern.
In the interests of equality, either the Code must be applied or it must be modified.
As I have already said on a number of occasions, I am in favour - the Commission is in favour - of drawing up a charter which would reflect, on the broadest basis possible and as part of a dynamic process, the common constitutional traditions of the Member States and the general principles of Community law, rather than being a mere statement of the lowest common denominator.
So I believe the best way to tackle the causes is by ensuring, on the one hand, that good governance is observed in the countries in question and that, on the other hand, there is more supervision nationally and internationally in order to avoid these lapses.
At this stage, there can be no delay in the process of reforming the Commission, demanded by our citizens.
A European inspection body must be established which can monitor the condition of vessels effectively and efficiently.
That too is feasible.
The question which I therefore ask myself is this: has in fact a start been made on how we can promote the media in this area, how we can train journalists and how we can improve information to the public on peaceful coexistence?
Mr President, I welcome the statement from the Commissioner.
I have received four motions for a resolution, tabled pursuant to Rule 40(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
Economic relationships in the real world adequately demonstrate that eliminating all public intervention in the market does not in any way bring about perfect competition and the optimum distribution of resources.
In other words, to put it simply, Denmark has a choice: it can either introduce legislation or it can use the legislative process to choose a collective agreement and legally activate it.
The Commission does not have a mandate to impose any limits on decisions taken by any country in terms of energy production, including the nuclear option.
I am certain that it will not be disappointed, having given us its support, and I personally undertake to keep Parliament informed, as things progress, of the various phases of the implementation of our measures and the measures of our citizens, which I hope will be great measures for the future of the Union.
Standards of food safety and indeed other areas of safety are obviously of critical importance in relation to enlargement and this is a matter that I have drawn to the attention of Mr Verheugen.
I would not like to have someone coming and saying that these requirements will lead to job losses in the ports.
Firstly, the promotion of and participation in the drafting of joint plans for the creation of an integrated services network in the transport and energy sectors, with the backing of the European Investment Bank.
75%-80% of this is to come from private sources, and this will be supplemented by public funds from the Member States and from the regions.
The Commission, however, though bound to issue guidelines, does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner.
In our contacts with senior political figures amongst the Kosovo Albanians, we have stressed - and the Portuguese Prime Minister did this very recently - that persecution of the Serb population, the Romany population and other ethnic groups is totally unacceptable.
Parliament has frequently made that point.
You have to decide whether you want to put people in danger, for example, or if you want to protect the environment; and you have to look at the science that is available.
Madam President, apart from these - to my mind - quite fundamental observations, there are also practical objections to the Tobin tax, as already underlined by Mr Karas and other speakers.
What is, however, deeply damaging for us is the belief that in some way the granting of Structural Funds assistance is something that has been, in a sense, a success of the government. It is sadly only a recognition of the very great difficulties that Wales faces.
Some say that all the costs should be borne by the manufacturers; that this is only right and in the very best interests of the consumer.
The comments contained within, under eight headings, are an integral part of the discharge, the implementation of which forms the basis of our decision.
He referred to United Kingdom border controls and I would like to say to him that Member States, and this includes the United Kingdom, are under no obligation at all to abolish or change controls at the existing borders.
But I will give two examples from which it is not as evident that the good intentions which the Commission has now expressed will lead to a good outcome: the public nature and confidentiality of documents.
It received strong support from the rest of the Commissioners and it has been through an interservice consultation in the whole of the Commission.
These are difficult subjects, subjects relating to institutional policy and mechanisms which are not always easy to explain.
It is the task of the monitoring committee for OLAF, which was set up at the same time as OLAF, to safeguard the independence of OLAF, however it cannot undertake the action mentioned in the report of monitoring internal investigative activities conducted by OLAF.
During the new programme period, in view of enlargement and bearing in mind that funding has been provided for from new financial instruments and regulations, such as ISPA and Sapard, it is considered absolutely essential to coordinate the funding of all three strands of INTERREG with other financial aid to third countries.
The urban question is so important that we cannot tighten our belts and undervalue it with a programme which has such a small budget.
In this respect, I would like to say something about the excellent idea put forward by Mrs Riis-Jørgensen and Mr Huhne of monitoring implementation.
Therefore, I would urge the Council and the Intergovernmental Conference to introduce the codecision procedure into legislation in this area.
My feeling is that, in spite of everything, this issue will always have to be on the agenda, because the public is clearly concerned about it, and because it is linked with the need to make the European institutions accountable to the public.
Both LEADER 1 and LEADER 2, which were implemented in the 1990s, were ingredients of the new CAP that emerged after its review in 1992 and, along with other respective measures, they constituted the so-termed second pillar of the EU' s rural development policy.
I should just like to make three comments which Commissioner Patten will perhaps see as similar but which, for various reasons, a Member can formulate more openly.
In my opinion, there is too much initial hesitation.
Lastly, Mr President, I believe we should favour the creation of small and medium-sized businesses which, if subject to rigorous approval and duly authorised, can promote the creation of jobs in this very important area, preventing the emergence of monopolies by large companies.
I would like to explain our thinking here.
That seems to me to be rather too long.
It is obvious that transparency will be a permanent fixture on the European agenda and it will, of course, feature on the agenda of this Intergovernmental Conference.
There is reasonable hope that a basis for a peace agreement can be built in the near future. I also hope that progress in the Syrian track will pave the way for an early resumption of Lebanese/Israeli talks which could then advance in parallel towards an overall deal on Israel's relations with its northern neighbours.
Subsidies distort allocations, both within and between countries.
However, I would ask these colleagues to show solidarity with the more than 2 million people who make a living from building cars in Europe, so that these jobs can be secured in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a European Union where the disparities between countries are observed to be less great, proving the effectiveness and worth of the Cohesion Fund, but where, at the same time, in relation to unemployment - as you wrote, Mrs Schroedter - an increasing gap exists between the 15 or 20 richest regions and the 15 or 20 poorest or most disadvantaged regions. This is a situation which is, as it should be, unjustifiable and intolerable.
Peace in the Middle East concerns us all, however.
But it does, at least, make it possible to anticipate some rather interesting options for development of the European Union.
You talk about greater transparency, but produce proposals which would lead to documents which, at present, are available for public inspection being locked away.
This text says nothing about the major democratic and political problems involving monetary union and the European Central Bank. This is untenable.
I can also say, in respect of your concerns on energy and especially on the environment - which, as you know, I share - that we are concluding the review of the organisation of environmental State aid.
In anticipation of this EU directive' s being implemented, EU countries ought however to be individually liable for scrapping vehicles in the best way possible so that the retroactive element in the EU legislation is not applied.
I express the hope that - in fact, I urge the present Commission to ensure that - the 1997 discharge is the beginning of a true reform of financial policy by the Commission. Otherwise this discharge will not have been of any value.
On 26 October 1999 the European Commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the CAP.
We need an agenda which can be translated into political action by the Commission on an ongoing basis in the way in which I have just described.
We accept the predominant role of the Council in this, but there are reservations and I am sure that the Council will listen to the words coming from the elected parliamentarians here when they go through it in more detail.
Why has no air quality test been done on this particular building since we were elected?
In the field of judicial cooperation, the Commission presented proposals for regulations aimed at the "communitisation" of certain conventions. These were the convention on judicial cooperation and the enforcement of judgements in civil and commercial matters (Brussels I), the convention on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgements in matrimonial matters (Brussels II), and a third convention concerning the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters.
These financial perspectives are adjusted to within a millimetre.
Our proposals are particularly concerned with the age of oil tankers.
The Union cannot achieve its environmental goals unless the use of renewables is actively stepped up.
But, otherwise, we must all of us, as taxpayers or citizens, foot the bill. What is more, the costs will be higher the longer we wait before taking action.
In an industry worth some EUR 600 billion annually, even a slight dip in confidence levels can have significant effects.
The consequences do not inspire hope.
The Union must not make this mistake and I therefore regret the fact that your communication does not go into more detail on this.
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of southern Lebanon, the only Middle Eastern area with an ongoing military conflict, will also demand considerable efforts. We also need to continue our support for economic reform and social development in Lebanon as a whole.
Today, Europe is facing a similar challenge, and we know that, just as history has been unforgiving in the past, it will not be forgiving in the present.
Lastly, in today' s vote on our four amendments, two have been approved and the other two rejected.
I welcome Commissioner Barnier and the Portuguese Presidency here this afternoon.
Unlike the previous speaker, who has now disappeared, my group is strongly in favour of a European Public Prosecutor.
In spite of an increase of 3 million in relation to the initial proposal, personally, once again I deplore the fact that the funds allocated do not match up to the ambitions expressed and that the concern to save money displayed by the Council in this situation is in rude contrast to its declarations in favour of the safety of the energy supply, job creation and environmental protection, challenges that are just as significant which we must face up to.
I would like to repeat my appreciation to all the speakers and especially to the rapporteur, Mr Koch.
A proposal has been drafted for a directive to amend the directive on the working time of non-consultant hospital doctors.
We respect and accept the discussion that is taking place and also appreciate the concerns that are being voiced in many of our Member States as to the way ahead for Austria.
Fascism and neo-Nazism are cancers!
Mr President, I would like to stress that, in an age of significant technological changes - just look at what is happening in the information technology sector and other sectors such as energy and transport - safeguarding competition will be of fundamental importance for our future.
If we continue to get bogged down with proposals that have given extremely poor results so far, I do not know what we or the Commission will be able to do.
Unfortunately, however, people still have too many misgivings to the effect that this will be the kind of European institution that undermines subsidiarity.
Nonetheless, their true purpose is to give direction and to set priorities.
I remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities.
Looking to the future, we know that we are at the beginning of a long process of continuing reform in the European Commission.
Firstly, Herr Trittin, the Environment Minister, was not in tune with his colleagues in the Cabinet, then Chancellor Schröder blundered in like a bull in a china shop, having no expert knowledge of this process.
When speaking of the commitment to full employment, we have to bear in mind that, these days, full employment does not mean what it meant in the era of Beveridge at the end of the Second World War, that is to say, employment for the male head of the household.
Fourthly, I would like to be informed of why the Commission does not choose to apply the invalidity penalty in the case of evident infringements of the competition rules.
I think that consequently it will be extremely difficult indeed to compensate these rural towns through subsidies for losses in their financial revenues.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market is not complete.
I am sure that, with the willingness that you have shown today, the first thing you will do, in this new climate of understanding between us, will be to take account of the motion for a resolution which we will submit to you.
It really is quite nonsensical that partnerships set up in 1994 are being rolled over now to the exclusion of new inter-regional links.
I am also envisaging that the authority will be much more proactive than our current regime - anticipate rather than react, identify issues before they become crises.
This is not in itself anything dreadful, but we should prioritise particularly the safety aspects for goods transported by road, rail and inland waterways and incorporate these, as part of the acquis communautaire, as soon as possible and present them to the acceding states.
This is such an important matter for consideration that firm conclusions have to drawn.
The political priorities must be set by this House and the MEPs.
Mr President, since 1996, the discharge has acquired a heavy, political significance.
Once again the discussion is going to be monopolised by the Heads of State and Government.
As the Commissioner knows, farming alone will not be sufficient to ensure the sustainability of rural communities.
Such European training is one element in ensuring that young farmers have the necessary knowledge of the CAP to make sound business decisions for the future.
The only court that could reasonably do so would be the Court of First Instance.
If you are persuasive in your actions, we all reap the benefits.
For example, Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 4.
Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam has set an important objective for the Union.
That is the successful way to manage change, and I hope the Commission will act to make sure that is put into place.
However, there is also nothing more certain than EU environmental directives which have laudable intentions but which actually fail to achieve their stated objectives.
However, it goes without saying that the Commission adheres to the principle of regular political dialogue with the European Parliament on all aspects of administrative reform.
I believe that it is important for the Community initiative to be able to begin on time and therefore for the report to receive overwhelming support so that the Commission is also obliged to take into consideration the constructive proposals made by the European Parliament, because Parliament put the appropriations for EQUAL in the reserve precisely so as to ensure that Members' ideas were also reflected in this Community initiative.
Last November, the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party adopted a position on internal differentiation within the Union when it proposed a system of concentric rings for Europe: the onion skin model.
Madam President, if the vote records correctly how my Group voted I shall not, and cannot, object to that.
We must not forget Africa, a continent which has been forsaken, not only by God, but also by Europe, nor our important contribution to cooperating with development.
The Union cannot be enlarged to 28 without addressing the matter of whether Europe has certain joint principles and values, whether it comes down to an economic free trade area, or whether, on the other hand, it has a greater ambition: the desire to be a supranational union, in ways that have yet to be defined, that wants to blaze a trail for civilisation and democracy in the world.
The time has come to discuss, and then establish, a body for emergency civil protection in Europe.
Well, I, and my fellow 35 British Conservative MEPs wish it and would like you to please consider it.
Instead of all this waffling about the budget granted to this fund, we could take the decision to set this up.
This is the most detailed and comprehensive report to date on the environmental effects of the Kosovo conflict and I recommend it to those who have not yet studied it.
We in the Council will be trying to provide information on this matter during the Portuguese Presidency.
I very much hope that you, Commissioner Monti, will support these amendments, and I look forward to your comments and to finding out where you stand on this matter.
a) Sittings from 14 to 18 February 2000 in Strasbourg Relating to Wednesday:
The first point on which we disagree is the duration of three months for the residency permit, since all that does is create legal insecurity.
For example, these would be measures for vocational training, for further education, for re-integrating people who have already been excluded from the production process, for the flexibilisation of working time and working time arrangements, in order to bring about a definite improvement in the integration of personal and social aspects and perhaps also to promote employment opportunities for women again.
It seems to me blindingly self-evident that some action is necessary.
As it happens - and I would like to add this for the sake of the Netherlands - negotiations on this matter have taken place at an earlier stage.
However, Mr Decourrière does show some common sense by denouncing the failings of the Brussels technocrats.
Should this be condemned ecologically, Frau Breyer?
In other words, there are quite a few imponderables that we are not being informed about and that others are presumably unable to get to grips with properly either.
If they do not properly reflect the positions adopted, then we may correct them, if necessary.
It is irresponsible of EU Member States to refuse to renew the embargo.
And what about vehicles which are already on the road?
In my opinion, it would be good if we could achieve consensus at the international level regarding certain basic principles of competition law.
We have serious reservations about the Council' s proposed amendments.
Secondly, it dumps huge costs on the European motor industry which would damage competitiveness and damage employment.
Yes, I would say we already use this way of working with different, difficult issues like a new chemical strategy for example.
I am, up to a point, concerned about how the Council will fight for the principles contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam and whose purpose is to ensure that citizens have a better opportunity to participate in the decision-making process.
This does not just mean administrative changes but also structural changes; in other words we must create instruments which are actually capable of affording protection under criminal law.
Our people expect more Europe, but not just any Europe.
The emphasis is on local groups in which the authorities, non-profit-making organisations and profit-making companies join forces.
As for the remaining vehicles, we could nevertheless provide for some means of sharing costs, as is proposed in Amendments Nos 44 and 45 by Mr Lange, the only ones that seem compatible with the balancing of the common position and with the trials underway in some countries, and we should therefore support them.
Personally, I am pleased with some of the replies, for example, in relation to issues as sensitive as Schengen and the Europol Convention, which we hope will be reviewed, and I am pleased with the words of the Minister for Justice with regard to trying to bring them under the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities.
At the same time, the obligation to engage in transnational cooperation, the complicated demands of the plan and the implementation of a development partnership inevitably require large structures, as these are the only structures which can meet such demands.
Last week, and somewhat by chance, I witnessed, at Roissy airport, a scene of rare violence in which two young women, admittedly illegal immigrants, were being returned to Conakry.
I will end now.
The Commission' s administration simply does not function particularly well.
This precedent, created on the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency, is a worrying one as far as the future of the European Union is concerned.
These include, amongst others, the incorporation into the Treaty of security and defence issues, which have made much progress recently, but which must be incorporated into the Treaty.
We shall then have an appropriate tool for working, particularly in the majority of the regions affected by the storms.
We know that readmission clauses are included in the cooperation and association agreements.
It is a fact that we are debating this programme today because the European Parliament insisted that this initiative should be maintained.
(Applause)
Furthermore, future legislation must address the modus operandi of the relationship between the European food authority and the authorities of national Member States, for example the food safety authority in Ireland.
At the same time, this change of system will also lead to more onus being placed on the individual in the business world, of course.
Now, however, he is to go before the courts once more because the public prosecutor is appealing.
The new coalition agreement is about reforming a democracy, the rights of the opposition, commitment to compensating those forced into hard labour....
What is the Commissioner' s opinion of this?
In order to ensure that at least 50% of the energy mix comes from renewable energy sources, it is not enough to deal with a few hot spots that will be more profitable in the short term.
If we have not been able to reach agreement internally, I wonder whether we will then be able to convince the other trade partners.
We should not be so politically partisan.
KFOR and the UNMIC police consider one of their two main tasks to be preventing any form of maltreatment on the grounds of a person' s ethnic origin.
Of course, that falls within your remit; my next question falls within Mr Nielson' s remit in that it concerns environmental cooperation, in particular matters pertaining to water and the problems surrounding the cotton monocultures, which are the cause of great aridity.
If we examine the data presented in the sixth periodic report, we will see that the last decade has witnessed a proliferation of regional disparities.
I have a serious problem with one of the central points of this resolution which we cannot accept as it stands.
This is all the worse - as is the case with the second part of this reform - when responsibility for implementing the legislation lies with national authorities.
I am optimistic and quite relaxed and confident about the vote; we shall gain broad support for this opinion on EQUAL.
That it is what we are doing.
It has also reached a political agreement - and we congratulate them on this - on the initial proposals for civil cooperation.
When we adopt the Minutes for today' s sitting tomorrow, then any Members who think the positions have not been explained clearly enough may ask for amendments.
Do we imagine, then, that the cost would disappear if we were not to adopt this directive?
It is not acceptable to continue as if nothing had happened.
Furthermore, it has transpired that research in the ports in Belgium, Finland, but also in Japan has shown that 50% of containers with partially dangerous cargo are not delivered correctly for shipment.
Are you able to confirm that holidaymakers will be able to swim safely in the Adriatic this summer, and are there any measures in the pipeline for ascertaining what the dangers might be in this respect?
However, despite the fact that the volume is relatively small, it is nevertheless symbolically important that there is a common desire throughout the Community as a whole to support this type of action, which contributes to our genuine compliance with the Kyoto commitments. This action also contributes to achieving greater diversification in terms of our energy sources, greater safety in our energy supplies and, in the case of SAVE, to reducing consumption and increasing efficiency in the use of energy, thereby contributing to achieving the objectives set.
It was therefore necessary to introduce an economic analysis.
How can we be sure that those of your colleagues responsible for industrial policy and foreign trade policy, will not, as they did on the last few occasions with your predecessors, keep pulling the carpet from underneath you?
On one hand we have the exuberance of the financial markets and the explosion of wealth and, on the other, more widespread exclusion.
A third problem has been raised by Mrs Dührkop with regard to the multiannual programmes.
Perhaps it would be better, however, if the positions of responsibility within the European Union and the other institutions from the OSCE to the United Nations, were to get together some time to introduce a uniform, coordinated procedure and to examine how we can be of real assistance to the people there.
We Socialists desperately want a European pact for growth and employment.
Madam President, in the earlier vote - and I will abide by your ruling on this matter - on the question of the strategic plan of the Commission I indicated that I would like to speak in advance of the vote on behalf of my Group.
For this reason, I would like to express my appreciation for the work carried out by Vice-President Marinho.
A word on the White Paper: the revision of Articles 81 and 82 represents a change of direction in monopolies policy.
The URBAN Community Initiative is helping to achieve the European Union' s desire to communitise urban policy.
The amendment proposed under paragraph 1 has, in our view, been overtaken by events because, following consultations with the representatives of the Member States in the STAR Committee, this point has already been reworded along the lines proposed by Parliament.
What we are proposing specifically is a unified capital tax, which would make it possible to boost the funds used to support the harmonisation of social protection systems and the reduction of working hours at European level.
The Minutes of 3 February were originally distributed in Brussels so perhaps this is why some Members did not receive them.
But this is not in place.
No, you have not done so.
It should nevertheless be noted that we have just concluded the Treaty of Amsterdam, which was approved last May, and that there is a raft of implementing measures on transparency which are still in progress.
Essentially, my opinion is as follows: I deplore the fact that, in a field as crucial as the transport of dangerous goods, we keep putting off the adoption of harmonised standards to the detriment of human beings and the environment.
If car manufacturers all set up their own dismantling companies, this will necessitate transporting end-of-life vehicles over long distances.
I would therefore ask you to study the possibility of applying microcredit policies.
Faced with this neoliberal globalisation dominated by the financial markets, demand, as our motion recognises, is developing from a different idea of the world in which common law stipulates a duty of solidarity in an increasingly interdependent world.
That is not the intention and that is an important point that we need to bear in mind here.
It makes us realise that the victory of democracy is never definitive, and that we have to work to convince and keep on convincing.
There are risks, as we are all aware, but in the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach.
Nevertheless, new objectives have been included, specifically the financing of the Nature Network 2000, for which all rural regions will be eligible.
If we see in the development of that nuclear power plant that there are concerns about safety we will discuss it with Turkey.
I am sure that in this way the European Parliament will not be just an observer at these negotiations any more than the Commission will be.
There is State aid for businesses - we have already discussed this, there is still a strong public presence in the economy - it is estimated that the Italian Treasury controls 15% of stock exchange capitalisation; governments and central banks place obstacles in the way of mergers and acquisitions; and there has been much talk in recent weeks about Vodafone' s bid for Mannesmann and the bailout of Holzmann.
Monsieur Bolkestein, je veux vous dire quelque chose!
I wonder, since Mr Da Costa has been listening to these remarks from the back of the Chamber, whether Mr Kinnock could confirm that the Commission supports the view explicitly stated by Mr Da Costa today and in the recent statement by the Presidency on behalf of the heads of government.
Mr Poettering, it is interesting to note that you are in almost as difficult a position as I am, albeit for different reasons, for you are having to defend something that goes against your convictions.
The economy has never grown so much nor favoured so many countries on a global level.
Schroedter Report (A5-0108/1999)
I would therefore call on the Commission to fulfil its monitoring duties directly itself and to do all it can to ensure that LEADER+ programmes run smoothly.
From the sixth periodic report on the regions, one can draw the hesitant conclusion that these incentives do not always have the desired effect.
Madam President, Representative of the Council, Commissioner, a week ago, the big international Holocaust Conference ended in Stockholm.
Nevertheless, the outcome is now on the table and there for all to see, and I would expressly like to thank Mr van Hulten for the work he has done on this report.
We agree with the rapporteur regarding his criticism of the fact that, despite the rules laid down in the sixth Steel Aid Code, the Commission has frequently authorised aid to companies which do not correspond to the categories in that Code.
We should, however, also bear in mind, Mr Papayannakis, that we cannot act in an area which will have such a big financial impact, armed only with the measures a presidency can propose in the space of six months.
The Commission is actively involved in those efforts.
Finally, and in particular, expectations in the regions about this initiative are high given that small towns not eligible for Objective 2 funding are hoping to obtain compensation through INTERREG!
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made.
But more vital still is a Europe that feels strong in the political arena.
One in which someone from a modest background can get on in life so as to make life a little easier for his or her children.
There may be a series of different measures which can be taken.
Madam President, we cannot and must not accept the fact that we hear ever more frequently of accidents causing major damage on our roads, but also on our railways and waterways, not solely but at least partly because those involved do not take the transport of dangerous goods seriously enough or because - as a result of ignorance or a lack of training on the part of the drivers or others responsible for the various vehicles - a minor accident has all too often become a major disaster.
Finally, we have three questions for the Commission in this regard. Firstly, we need the Commission to give us, on a regular basis, the list and the amounts that other donors contribute.
But the lack of specific guidelines here is particularly to be regretted, as the idea of linking Social Fund assistance to the employment strategy will be put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme.
We need more police officers, as we have nowhere near enough.
We must examine whether any changes are needed to this end which would fall within the scope of the Intergovernmental Conference.
If you look at the UK consumer for example, who buys a Rover, as Mr Lange has indicated or for that matter any other make of car in the UK and who has for years been paying excessive prices for those cars, over and above comparable prices in other parts of Europe, why should they pay?
For the 2000-2006 period provision has been made, unfortunately, only for a total contribution of EUR 2 020 million, and an indicative allocation for each Member State has been set.
But he will appreciate - with his customary generosity I am sure - that for us to be able to listen to the response to what we are proposing, it is first necessary to transmit what we are proposing.
This event must underpin enlargement.
I therefore welcome the fact that the issue of food safety, public health and consumer confidence features prominently in the Commission's work programme for 2000.
It is Europe's duty to support them and thereby complement the efforts of the governments of Member States affected by the disaster.
Like honourable Members, I welcome the United States' efforts that have relaunched the Syrian/Israeli negotiations, despite the Syrian decision that they needed more time before resuming the talks that were scheduled to start again today.
I would ask you to support this common position.
It is about attending to the needs of the internal market, creating flexibility and behaving in a reasonable and flexible way to enable the employment of third country persons both as employees and self-employed.
Agriculture only provides 5.5% of employment in the Union.
It will be adopted through a legally-binding Commission decision to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Think of last year' s deadly criticism of the Commission' s lack of propriety, ethics and accountability.
I think it is the right of a Member of Parliament to raise his own concerns and fears.
The two identical-sounding questions which are under discussion are, of course, underpinned by a mantra of the kind which, in recent years, has increasingly transformed politics into a type of ideology - fine-sounding, but pernicious.
I referred to the directive which the Commission has proposed on compulsory arrangements for means of public transport, so that people with special needs can use them.
The crux of the problem is that all governments, and indeed all the European institutions, acknowledge the right of major corporations such as Total-Fina and its ilk to maximise profits whether it be harmful to their employees or to the environment.
History has taught us that Fascists start to blow hot and cold: using heated words first, in populist, xenophobic speeches, and then cool words in order to make themselves acceptable to institutions and to infiltrate them gradually, poisoning them, until the day they start to take action.
It is good that this directive should be established now, as, otherwise, Member States would have to amend their national acts for a very short time, a period of transition, which would again mean unnecessary costs and which would once more increase concern with regard to EU bureaucracy.
In the way it is structured, Eurojust should correspond to Europol and support investigations into crimes.
Accordingly, the Commission refused to put up with the fact that both European banks, the ECB and the EIB, contested the right of OLAF to include these two institutions in its investigations, citing their independent status.
We recognise that most of the officials within the Commission are extremely hard-working.
I have two or three points to make in this respect.
The possibility of stressing the importance of business and trade in the first place, but also making very sure that we include human rights in the equation, would be a step we should take in tandem with the European Commission, rather than saying that it is a matter for the Council.
Our attention is no longer focused exclusively on internal borders but also on external ones.
I would like to make one general point on politics. Whatever we may say about the European elections, the low turnout is a fact.
My intention is - and I insist - for us to begin discussions after the end of March, also coinciding with the Council of Ministers, and, of course, before the end of the six-month period of the Portuguese Presidency, for us to have texts to discuss.
It is the young people who are disappearing, who are getting an education and finding work outside of the rural areas, all of which has an unfavourable effect on those areas.
It is a structure to which the European Union has given as much support as it can and to which the countries of the European Union have contributed in various ways.
This is all too familiar in many of our urban areas.
Do not listen to the report' s demands that temporary staff should have their employment confirmed.
The treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 Member States.
Parliament asked the Commission to waive its excessive privileges.
SAVE
The new programme will, I am sure, in terms of its structure and organisation based on transparency, efficiency and balance, prove to be an instrument as successful as it is essential to our measures.
Frankly, I believe that this modernisation has been satisfactory.
This is the message that Parliament is sending to the Council.
Cultural activity is an expression of individuality, of an individual' s own personality; it builds relationships and communicates.
This state of deadlock, which threatens to undermine the credibility of the Union, has inspired Parliament to initiate the setting-up of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office.
And we will propose the establishment of an interinstitutional Disciplinary Board - something else on which we will need the support and understanding of Parliament.
Perhaps they are in lovely villas by lovely beaches, getting a nice tan.
Rapkay Report (A5-0078/1999)
Of 47 states invited from all corners of the world, not one of them, however, is an Arab state included in the EU' s Barcelona process.
It is clear that, over the past couple of years, we have noticed an upward trend in agriculture and a downward one in structural expenditure.
The Central Bank must be placed under political control so that the direction to be taken by monetary policy may be governed by political objectives such as high employment and prosperity. Public control of the Central Bank must be improved if this is to become possible.
President Prodi began his speech by talking of a paradoxical situation, a paradox in the European Union and also throughout the world: we are at the dawn of a new secular millennium, dominated by the web of the Internet and the sorcery of biotechnological advance, and we are living through a genuine change of epoch.
The newspaper reports were misleading.
Commissioner Vitorino, although I would describe cooperation with you as harmonious and profitable, words have often failed me in the past when faced with the conduct which the Council has demonstrated towards us.
Increased competition and newly established organisations should be able to provide significant benefits in terms of welfare, including within the spheres of education, health care and social services.
Let it be noted that we are completely united on all three counts.
It is not enough that all the world' s industrialised countries should be included in the scheme, as then currency trading would move to tax havens outside that group of countries.
Regarding information and training, in the past this budget line has been allocated for information, communication and training.
This is why our group will remain as close to the common position as possible and will not alter its essence.
What is the Commission' s verdict on this?
DGs must publish their own annual accounts so as to enable a clear identification of problem areas and set annual targets for reducing fraud and irregularities.
It concerns the issue of recycling costs.
I believe that local authorities and groups from the private and voluntary sector should be fully involved in the decision-making process for the spending of European Structural Funds.
. (ES) Mr President, I would like firstly to thank the Members, and especially the rapporteur, for the speed with which they have dealt with this issue.
The one thing it will not do is solve the problem - it is a massive sledgehammer to miss a nut.
If those amendments were adopted which would considerably weaken the directive, this would be very detrimental, not only from an environmental point of view but also for the European Parliament' s credibility on environmental issues.
Mr Prodi, there is one positive thing that I would like to say to you, perhaps contrary to the opinion of some Members, regarding the telegram that you sent to the Austrian Government.
I find it difficult to understand how he can index regional and social funds into this mathematical equation.
This is the sine qua non condition for reconciling the popular and political spheres.
Are we waiting for the next accident to happen?
It must, however, be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the Structural Funds, whose Objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority.
This is all the more serious, if that is possible - as others have said - bearing in mind that your Commission, Mr Prodi, has to carry out nothing less than a revision or reform of the current common fisheries policy, which you are legally required to do in 2002.
I should like to ask the Minister what precisely he is doing about the situation that is developing in Ethiopia where there is drought, where the crops have failed, and where, in six months' time, we will inevitably be back to the situation as it was some years ago in Ethiopia with famine and people dying in their thousands.
Firstly, there is the concern that some have expressed, in particular Mrs Randzio-Plath, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, of whether this new system of legal exception is absolutely compatible with the Treaty.
At the same time, unemployment is spiralling as a result of the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs.
Turkey's nuclear plans ? which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region ? prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey's political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons, as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan.
How can we stop similar disasters occurring in future if we do not institute draconian measures against the major oil corporations, and indeed many others who, in order to make more profit, take the risk of making the world uninhabitable?
Mr President, I would like to say a few words in order to highlight two points made in these reports which are of fundamental strategic importance to the way we see the Union.
So our response must be rapid and strong.
As an elected representative for the Loire-Atlantique region, unfortunately, I can testify to this.
It is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development.
I do think, though, that the LEADER+ programme has not got a penny to spare on additional administrative tasks, which in the normal course of events would have to be carried out by the Commission in any case.
We want in particular to see the hard-working and highly competent norm for Commission officials acknowledged in the outside world - a reputation that has been darkened by the inappropriate conduct of a few individuals.
I understand what you are saying.
We belong together, even when there are problems.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, you claim to be shaping a new Europe yet you are lacking one basic element: confidence.
I took the punishment that came to me.
Any democrat can spot two key problems.
We want an Intergovernmental Conference, but not this one.
I agree that an investigation system should be introduced, but I am also absolutely convinced that we must recognise the right to equal respect for dignity and, in any case, the equal need for the right to a defence.
You still have not finished that agenda.
I am opposed to European Community officials being accused of criminal acts at the drop of a hat: whistle-blowing is a method that has no place in the third millennium.
In this regard, it must be remembered that energy policy remains within the national remit.
But I still wonder if we do not run the risk of ending up in a kind of Echternach procession where we will have to take one step back before we are able to take two steps forward.
Mrs de Palacio will open the debate on behalf of the Commission.
No other Member State is at such a disadvantage.
In this respect, Mr Bolkestein, the motion for a resolution cannot be separated from the issue of the Tobin tax.
In France it has had enormous resonance, particularly when linked to a demand to use the proceeds to help the Third World out of its debt and poverty.
The regularisation of illegal immigrants in certain countries, including your own, must act as an example to others. These illegal immigrants nowadays constitute a plethora of vulnerable people at the mercy of slum landlords, an oppressed workforce subject to economic exploitation, rendering them modern-day slaves.
Nevertheless, the proposal for a directive merely aims to allow them to move to another Member State when they are posted there by an employer based in their country of normal residence. This means that their scope for movement is limited to the duration of their posting and only to the Member State to which they were posted.
There must be equality in terms of national representation within the Commission and within all the other European institutions.
I am pleased that Ireland has recently announced that it is going to spend £125 million on the development of an environmentally sustainable energy sector.
Firstly, I think that the Commission should pay much more attention to the proper storage of documents.
What answer will the Commission give, when it is on the scene, when you tell the forestry worker that we support road construction and dam-building, and we want to rebuild our cultural heritage and create tourist attractions etc.? All this is well-intentioned advice.
Syrian economic development will need assistance for the transition from a wartime to a peace economy.
What many Austrians are wondering today is why their democratic decision has suddenly been interpreted as an expression of a fascistic cast of mind, and why the campaign did not begin until the Freedom Party rejected the support of a minority government comprising the SPÖ?
Furthermore, the Member States must give the Commission advance warning with regard to their intentions concerning state aid.
This means putting forward the Commission' s priorities, based on past experience in implementing the programmes, as well as current Community policies relating to structural operations.
Mr President, the oil tanker Erika, the ownership of which is veiled by accommodation addresses on Malta and probably in Italy and Greece and which was hired by Total-Fina for the transport of oil, foundered off the Breton coastline, with disastrous consequences.
It is a good feeling to be able to say that he is from our delegation and I am, I think, entitled to feel a little proud of him.
As I have understood it, there has been a certain lack of clarity in some respects as to how this is to be understood.
In point 18, Parliament suggests publishing a compendium of examples of successful initiatives.
I know many have already done so, but she has indeed earned our praise for being particularly open and attentive to proposals from all sides, and I think it is this openness which has given her report the quality we see today.
It is up to Washington, not us, to assume responsibility for a conflict which was triggered merely to serve its interests.
Mr Prodi, I repeat that this is, in our opinion, a slightly short-sighted view.
While the report was being prepared, it was interesting to discuss the Union' s regional policy in general.
The cost is not insurmountable; nor is the task an impossible one.
However, having regard to my contacts with the presidents of the relevant committees, I recognise that this was not feasible.
I support the enlargement of the European Union.
Madam President, I should like to draw your attention to a case in which this Parliament has consistently shown an interest.
Lastly, Mr President, I would like to highlight the work carried out by the volunteers and local authorities, who reminded me of old times when, as the then Mayoress, I lived through similar situations.
Indeed, it is debatable whether this could be carried through at all without amending the Treaty.
How long will you continue to monitor the effects of these weapons?
The processing cost can then be incorporated in the price of new cars.
I think that we need to make a tangible gesture in order to get a solution to this problem underway.
So the legal framework, Mr President, is already in place.
In view of this, in accordance with the decision on the 97/99 guidelines (Howitts report), the Commission should have consulted Parliament in time. In fact, it found a sort of convenient excuse in the shortening of the programming stage in the Member States, and it published the guidelines back in July 1999, even before the new Parliament had taken up its legislative duties, thereby preventing Parliament itself from having any influence on the current content of the guidelines.
This Chamber, and the European institutions, were build to uphold values, morality and a certain spirit.
It has to be close to the Commission because of the need for interaction between the scientists involved in the Food Safety Authority and those of us who are involved in the initiation of legislation.
I disagree, however, for this very reason, with the senseless actions taken by the Presidency - the Portuguese Presidency unfortunately - which have resulted in a real institutional blunder on behalf of the other fourteen States.
This is not impossible.
I ask the Commission to incorporate this into a study of how the situation should be managed now that the emergency is over.
And that is why we came to the conclusion we reached yesterday morning.
You are being realistic when you say that the welfare state can no longer provide adequate responses to the problems facing us, including unemployment.
But I have no doubt at all that he is right to point to the strategic importance of Central Asia.
Our answer to this crucial question is no.
So, whether this is to be a government programme or a potential programme, the breakdown of the document you distributed to us and of the accompanying speech is not much more than a list of good intentions, or rather a list of issues on the table. It does not, however, give us the impression that the Commission is taking a clear position on any of these points, but that it is just doing the European Commission' s duty.
The Portuguese Presidency has agreed to initiate deliberations on this matter, perhaps to extend the mandate.
Therefore, we can but call on the Commission to continue to show restraint and praise those who are working to safeguard the independence and sovereignty of the Austrian people, thereby ensuring that this people retains its freedoms and maintains good relations with other peoples.
If a particular Member State was to declare that it had suddenly run into problems because the individual concerned had committed a theft and the card was for their country, then this particular Member State would be able to revoke this card, as it were, for the reasons cited in this directive, which is altogether a flexible and intelligent solution.
I can only say very briefly, that we are actively working with them on a practical level: they are making preparations, they now all have competition laws and are setting up the relevant authorities.
After the planned accession of new Member States with their 100 million inhabitants, the prosperity level of which is at one third or two thirds of the average level of the current EU Member States, this squandering will generate even more protest.
Question No 6 by (H-0788/99):
All these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents, yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity.
Various arguments have been presented in its favour.
Mr Alavanos, I cannot agree with what you just said in your last sentence on Mr Kouchner' s responsibilities, and I would like to make two very important points here. The structure being implemented in Kosovo is under the auspices of the United Nations.
That concludes Question Time.
In order to achieve a more rapid and efficient boost for attaining these objectives, we think that those who generate employment, the real entrepreneurs and those who really guarantee new sources of employment, that is, businesspeople, must participate in this initiative.
It has been submitted to Parliament and we expect Parliament' s opinion next month.
. (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I wish to express my satisfaction with the agreement reached on the ALTENER II programme in the Conciliation Committee and associate myself with the comments of the different speakers and, of course, point out that this agreement will allow the ALTENER programme to be incorporated soon into the framework energy programme.
However, with the evolution of dynamic networks with national scientific bodies and agencies, the authority will become pre-eminent on the European stage.
In that context I support calls to strengthen port state control to ensure full and effective inspection.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
Madam President, I had a major problem with this resolution.
Competition between the regions will certainly strengthen rather than weaken the European Union.
Subject: Community EQUAL initiative On 13 October 1999, the Commission adopted the Community's EQUAL initiative, the aim of which is transnational cooperation to find and develop new means of combating discrimination and inequalities in the labour market with the focus on asylum-seekers.
To explain in a clear and coherent way how the Commission applies, and intends to apply, the precautionary principle in its management of risk and to set out guidelines for its application based on reasoned and coherent principles.
If they yield, they are lost.
No one knows what kind of authority this parliament is going to have vis-à-vis UNMIK.
Whatever system is adopted, ultimately the cost will be passed on to the consumer.
We must get away from the idea that we are rushing to put out a fire in one corner, only then to have to rush again to put out the next one. As Mr Blak said, we must instead establish a system with clear roles.
As far as the possibility of having projects containing training initiatives is concerned, I might point out that this is precisely a point which we have now integrated into the new rural development policy, which means, in our view, that it is no longer necessary to do this as part of LEADER.
What is the role of the scientific committees?
This professional training would be targeted at awareness of the terms of the legislation, regulations and administrative conditions applicable to such transport.
Not once does your twelve-page document mention the national parliaments even though they comprise the elected representatives of the people.
The Council was not prepared in the case of this particular programme to accommodate Parliament to the tune of even a single euro!
But, ladies and gentlemen, if we do remove every reference and any recourse to a TAO at a later date then this will have a consequence and that will be an increase in the number of officials' jobs needed to do this work, because somebody will have to do it and I cannot keep redeploying the same staff indefinitely, at a time when our duties are increasing with the pre-accession structural instrument (ISPA) and in order to ensure that, the Community appropriations for which I am responsible, often in partnership or on terms of coresponsibility with Member States, are monitored better, with discipline and transparency.
It should be pointed out that this can only be done within the Council' s scope for action.
As regards state aid, it is essential to ensure that regulations are not made more complex, and the introduction of a public register, where all aid would be recorded, does not seem advisable to us since this onerous commitment would quite naturally run counter to the attempts to simplify bureaucratic constraints.
I am referring here especially to the earlier scandals involving ECHO.
Madam President, we are not asking for more bureaucracy, as Mr Karas put it just a few minutes ago.
(The order of business was adopted thus amended)
So I should be grateful if the Commissioner could enlarge upon this question.
Mr President, I will begin by thanking the Portuguese Presidency and the Commission for all our recent very useful contacts.
Though our proposal to withdraw political invitations to any Austrian government representative to this European Parliament has not carried today, I give notice that we will further this proposal to ensure that any action within the powers of this European Parliament to combat the return of neo-Nazis to government in Europe can and will be taken.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
For this reason we very much welcome programmes of this kind.
Madam President, this debate was opened by Mr Da Costa, who merely confirms that the EU presidency is trying to influence the composition of a government of one of the Member States.
Madam President, as you know, the reason we are voting this report today rather than last week is because of the numerous and serious translation errors, particularly in the French version.
The quest for equality should permeate the work of the Directorate-General for Development at all levels.
It was natural that these élites would exclude any political concerns from their field of manoeuvre, thus protecting themselves from any democratic control and basically managing to be both illegitimate and irresponsible.
But it is nonetheless true - and this has been repeated from all sections of this House - that the European industrial fabric is composed of small and medium-sized businesses, and that the Commission often plays the role of auctoritas, of legitimising the nature of the internal market.
Which national fund will pay for my end-of-life vehicle?
There is also an argument for introducing early notification obligations as well as having this card.
I think that very tough demands should be made of the car industry.
It would appear that we are in agreement about this.
A considerable stumbling block is the fact that the regions and other operators find it impossible and are incapable of making plans in time.
There are some details to be finalised but most of the technical issues have been resolved.
The events of last week - which originated outside the Conference of Presidents, that Conference being used simply to corroborate and ratify decisions taken elsewhere - present us with a dilemma. Either the Commission is not ready to present this programme, in which case it should clarify it.
Is the purpose of the famous training centres to provide jobs for instructors or trainees?
I nevertheless believe that politicians should look into what can be gleaned from an expert report and what cannot be taken en masse in a spirit which, on some occasions, I have felt in the past and still feel to be self-destructive.
The efforts to coordinate the planning and so make it more effective must extend to all the programmes equally, and I say that because in the MEDA programme during the last period some problems arose which have to be overcome, so that we can have equal treatment for all the third countries participating in that programme.
This European Parliament requires the European Commission to be vigilant of any racist action in Austria, and threatens to suspend Austria from membership of the European Union if this happens.
The main objective of this debate is to look at the instruments available to the international community for stabilising the international financial and monetary system.
In a fortnight' s time, I shall be in Berlin.
For example, the figures for last year now show that the total value of mergers in the European area was EUR 1.4 trillion, which is seven times the level of merger activity at the peak of the last European merger boom in 1990.
Changes should not be brought about too quickly and cannot be too sweeping, otherwise public opinion will make ratification of any future European Union treaty very difficult indeed.
The debate is closed.
But let us stop to consider the circumstances in which this debate is taking place and the conclusions to which it should bring us.
This failure is illustrated by the fact that after an entire war that was waged to put an end to ethnic cleansing, we now have ethnic cleansing from the opposite side.
Mr President, our group welcomes the horizontal thrust of the EQUAL initiative so that, if you are a British Muslim physically disabled in some way you no longer have to chose which category of discrimination you belong to as a target group: you can use your expertise and experience to solve problems, rather than being defined as the problem.
These timber sales should be supported by strong media coverage in Member States.
It is precisely this type of car industry which we should be encouraging in the European Union.
It is also an economic disaster for all the people who make their living from the sea and from tourism, fishermen, oyster farmers, shellfish farmers, people who make a living from the salt marshes, shopkeepers, etc.
In the next resolution on the IGC, Parliament must take a long and hard look at the questions of differentiation and flexibility.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with all these major political challenges, but precisely because of the recovery that is now underway, we are also faced with major opportunities.
In the Union for a Europe of Nations Group our principles are rather different.
Mr President, a year has not yet passed, but it is already clear that Parliament is going to evaluate the first and second reports differently.
I can assure you that we are not reaching the areas where there is most need.
Mr President of the Commission, may I say to you on behalf of my group that we very much support the point of departure, the core of the analysis and the strategy that you bring to this House today: that is that the stakes now are irrefutably political.
It is not the job of the MEP to generate litigation or legal proceedings for judges in any arena. That would not be fulfilling our mission.
In fact, this initiative was the subject of a very lively debate in committee, and, given that it is a major Commission proposal, which refers to the agreements we reached last year, I consider it admissible.
There is little point in having streets which are now wonderfully lit, with new pavements, with newly paved road surfaces, all whitewashed and beautiful, if we are not able to fill them with activity and, therefore, employment.
I am telling you all of this to illustrate how complex the problem is, and I thank the Commission once again for extending their analysis of this situation as far as it could.
As a result of the economic and political success in our part of the world, of which the EU is just one proof, and in view of the ever greater proliferation of our Western values, competition on the world market has grown considerably within the last few decades.
On 26 November 1999, the European Commission approved a package of measures to combat discrimination.
Within the social dimension we will be looking for a deepening of the internal market with a social aspect.
The second recommendation relates to criminal proceedings.
This courageous stance turns a new page in the construction of Europe.
Finally, we propose keeping both a register, as mentioned by a number of my fellow MEPs, and also a scoreboard showing where the Member States at present stand with regard to state aid.
Another issue concerns the economies of countries involved in enlargement, which may run the risk of remaining assisted economies for ever more if provision is not made for gradual adjustment.
However, responsibility for ensuring that due attention is given to equality lies with departmental and unit managers.
I must not overlook the fact that 1999 marked the beginning of the 1999-2004 parliamentary term of the European Parliament, that it was the year in which the new Commission took up its duties and, as a consequence, the year in which a Commissioner solely responsible for the areas of justice and home affairs assumed his responsibilities.
The German Social Democrats voted against the von Wogau report because, in their view, it might break up European policy on competition, which is to say, in plain terms, attacking the standardising superstate.
In light of what I have said, I ask Parliament to approve the opinion which Mr Leinen and I have put before you, so that on 14 February, the work of the Intergovernmental Conference can begin and our two representatives, Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, can proceed with the difficult task that awaits them with the European Parliament' s backing.
It is right for us to have a focused report which is what Mr van Hulten has produced.
It means the reform of the United Nations and the international financial institutions, for which Europe has an enormous responsibility.
We must reach agreement here, in all the European Union' s ports, from Marseilles, through to Rotterdam, to Wilhelmshaven, Cuxhaven, and wherever ships drop anchor.
I hope that we will soon be able to agree a code of conduct on relations between our institutions which will include updated rules on access to documents.
We adopted our recommendation unanimously in the committee because we felt that it was particularly important to continue URBAN - which in the past has been implemented successfully - because, as we see it, programmes of this kind are the only way in which we in the European Union will succeed in ensuring that in the long term all those who live in the European Union enjoy peaceful coexistence.
Some of the amendments today are totally unreasonable in that they take away completely the responsibility from the car manufacturer of paying a little if any of the cost of disposal of cars on the road.
I am looking at all those of you who have not exactly been at the forefront of the environmental movement.
Such distortions in competition are not about environmental protection; they simply affect investment potential and the jobs of those building cars in Europe.
This disaster is both a transport and environmental one and is not confined to one area.
The key task of the authority will be risk assessment in the area of food safety.
On the contrary.
That is already secured by means of the various national legal systems.
We need to conduct a serious analysis of the matter.
Here there are three elements I would like to contribute.
Equally, the scientists will wish to have some input into the legal process or the policy-making process or the law-drafting process, to ensure that the legislation meets the ills that they have identified.
"Condemns Mr Haider for his insults towards certain EU Member States and their leaders in the last few days in statements, which Foreign Minister Schüssel has failed to condemn."
According to my group, this is excellent if, as a result of this, deprivation within regions, towns and population groups is eliminated or if health and the environment improved.
The policy of cut-backs which has followed in the wake of adjusting to EMU has promoted the successes of right-wing extremism.
The report shows that growth has been uneven, despite all our efforts.
I hope, like so many others, that the state of emergency in relations between the Commission and Parliament is on the way to being resolved.
That concludes questions to the Council.
As Mrs Randzio-Plath said, we must remember that the reason why certain Members want to revive this question is because of the recent international financial crises and their economic, social and environmental consequences which have been felt by all in some countries.
The means of achieving this are difficult but they are real.
If the Union takes the initiative, this will have a ratchet effect because this debate is occurring all over the world, including in the USA and Japan. A desire is being expressed everywhere with increasing force that the world should not be ruled by traders but by the people, their parliaments, their governments and their democratic institutions.
But, Madam President, my personal request has not been met.
This makes it necessary to have proper rules governing transport of this kind.
We want to promote better enforcement of that legislation and to provide greater transparency to consumers.
Here improvements should be made.
It is barely six months since Amsterdam imposed a duty on our two organisations to work together; we have been sizing each other up, we have had a few minor spats, but we need to work effectively together.
I shall also refer the matter to the College of Quaestors, and I am certain that they will be keen to ensure that we comply with the regulations we ourselves vote on.
It is precisely this process that undermines confidence every year.
That is why a ceiling needs to be set for administrative expenditure.
In many ways, they share the same interests and the same insights.
I can understand it when colleagues from countries which do not build cars advocate that manufacturers should pay the full whack and that they are not interested in the problem of distortions in competition when it comes to setting aside funds.
Storms in Europe
Mr President, I would firstly like to point out that I was Mayor of Bilbao during the nineties, which gave me the opportunity to present one of the first urban pilot projects to be subsidised by the Commission.
Allow me just to go very briefly into a second matter.
I do, however, have one small concern, when I hear the Commissioner on the subject of the commitments made by their services in the Committee on Budgets.
All we would have to do is get a directory of development and put all the items in our programme, one after the other.
At the end of last year Mr Kinnock announced new measures for the protection of whistle-blowers.
As we have heard, the objective of URBAN is the promotion of innovative strategies to promote economic and social regeneration in urban areas, bearing in mind that 80% of the population of Europe lives in cities.
I would like an answer as to whether or not the Portuguese Presidency intends to do something about these matters.
Madam President, an omission appears to have been made. In the list of tabled motions for a resolution which you have just read out, no mention is made of the compromise motion tabled jointly by the PSE, ELDR, GUE/NGL and Greens/EFA Groups and by Mrs Kuntz and Mr Coûteaux.
We find ourselves dealing with some very serious events, which in the past seemed to be the norm.
The handover will have been made, but the conditions in which the handover is going to be made, by yourself, Mr President, and by the Portuguese Presidency, are going to be extremely important, as is the nature of this handover.
Vehicles already abandoned have also been abandoned by Community legislation, in that they are not taken into consideration either in the texts on emissions or in this text on end-of-life vehicles.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
I just want to highlight three areas among many where we need quick progress.
We believe that decisions in the risk management area should properly remain the preserve of the Commission, Parliament and Council.
Mr President, as you will know, Mr van Hulten's report on the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts is necessarily long and, since I want to make a comprehensive reply, particularly on the issues relating to financial management and control, I seek your indulgence.
However, this one would undoubtedly be one of the firm favourites to win such a prize.
In point 14, Parliament calls on the Commission to submit an evaluation report on LEADER II immediately.
President Guterres was also a traitor in Salazar' s eyes, and that is something that I believe should also be stated and defended by the PPE-DE.
With this, we believe that we are totally in line with what we agreed.
Can you confirm the agreement made by your services in the Committee on Budgets, yes or no? Or are you going to drop this proviso, thus breaking the undertaking made to us?
A firm attitude which the 14 European States have demonstrated unanimously and promptly, through Mr Guterres, by condemning the risk of the Austrian political situation getting out of control.
Secondly, the requirement of the double hull as a condition for access to Community waters must be enforced as soon as possible and cease to be put off indefinitely.
We have no specific, concrete initiatives in this area but that does not mean that we are closed to the idea that an initiative proposed to us by NGOs in this area might be considered during our presidency.
The Member States must also bear in mind their responsibility.
The Commission particularly welcomes the suggestions made by Parliament for a more efficient procedure for the issue of service provision cards.
Of course, it is particularly important for people with special needs to have access to means of transport, services and all types of installation if they are to exercise their right to freedom of movement.
This regulation and these standards have brought an increased volume of trade for the World Trade Organisation, in other words, increased wealth, but when we look at how this wealth is distributed, we see, unfortunately, that the gulf between the world' s richest countries and blocks and the poorest and least developed countries continues to increase.
Why should a European food authority be an essential part of that structure of change?
I support calls to ensure that the classification societies effectively monitor vessels' structural conditions and are held accountable for their actions.
Let us remember that for half a century, Europe has provided us with peace, security and freedom and a united Europe has also contributed to giving us a period of unprecedented prosperity.
This, I thought, is no longer permissible, certainly not at the moment.
This will make it possible to clarify the terms and thus prevent any misreading!
Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice has so far been an area with no clear regulation in important sectors.
Mr President, on behalf of Commission President, Mr Prodi, I would like to respond as follows.
Moreover, given that this opinion is quite important, we can still vote for it, and indeed, the majority of our group will be voting for it.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it will, ladies and gentlemen, be taking initiatives to inaugurate and orchestrate this public debate.
As far as your question is concerned, this problem does not only apply to Denmark. It is not only Denmark which has matters pending.
Here, in my opinion, the labour market is also considerably burdened by the costs arising to these companies.
Mr President, I would welcome some action in this area.
My questions relate to the positive list for animal feed.
If we are capable of defining what our area of governance is, I think that would be very positive.
This preparatory work, this fine-tuning, must not be omitted, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I know from my own experience in Amsterdam that it is extremely important and useful, and that it will not just be limited to technical details.
Secondly, I was rapporteur for civil protection in Europe and I completely agree with the Commissioner' s proposal to create a European civil protection body.
For Europe to become the symbol of peace and fraternity, we need a bold and generous policy to come to the aid of the most disadvantaged.
Should we at long last be drafting convergence criteria, in which - as you in fact hint at in this programme - the aim would be that unemployment in no Member State should be higher than, say, the three most successful countries in this matter?
The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds believes that as many as 400,000 birds, perhaps mainly guillemots, may have died.
We must increase our efficiency in this area. We must reopen the Danube to boats.
This has been interpreted as indicating that the Arab attitude towards Israel should be regarded by Europeans as being similar to the Nazis' anti-Semitism, which of course is completely incorrect.
Our amendments from the first reading have, I believe, been taken into account very satisfactorily.
I think that it is quite obvious, and this is the first conclusion that can be drawn from the Erika disaster, that public opinion would find it hard to understand that we regulate chocolate but do not regulate maritime transport.
It is in this spirit that I have three criticisms to make. These must be taken into account if we are truly to shape the new Europe, as proclaimed ambitiously by the title of the Commission document and Mr Prodi' s speech and do so in reality not rhetoric.
I have already referred to the regional and savings bank sector, but I would just like to focus on a matter one hears again and again in certain quarters.
Our experience with that pilot project in Bilbao led us to four conclusions: firstly, that Europe must maintain an urban policy and therefore, far from reducing the EUR 900 million for the last five year period to EUR 700 million for this five year period, the funding of this project should be increased. This should be done, for example - and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has proposed this - by reinvesting, in URBAN projects, that portion of the Structural Funds which each Member State has not spent within the time scales laid down for that purpose.
What we are looking for are minimum standards in asylum procedures so that refugees can be given help quickly, and those who are not fleeing know where they stand.
I do not believe that there has ever been a resolution - and in this Parliament we certainly produce complex resolutions - which has had paragraphs of more than 16 lines without a single full stop.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
I wish to thank everyone in this Parliament who worked to achieve this successful outcome to the conciliation process.
Madam President, I would like to refer briefly to the last objective, which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental: the stabilisation of the continent and the strengthening of the Europe' s role in the world.
I wonder on what point of order Mr Davies was speaking.
We are giving a positive opinion on the convening of the IGC precisely because we have been impressed by the attitude of the Portuguese Presidency which has taken on board our request that the agenda of the IGC be widened.
Transparency does not mean more access to more paper; to our citizens, transparency means greater clarity at long last as to who takes decisions in Brussels and Strasbourg, when and with what right.
Secondly, we will need to set efficient mechanisms in place to prevent disputes, and the White Paper sets out mechanisms for information and consultation.
During the next round of EU Structural Funds 2000-2006, other EU initiatives such as "Equal" and "Urban" will be operating.
However, the European Court of Justice did not make specific reference to the issue of visa requirements and conditions of residence and consequently the Member States were unable to clarify this issue.
There are several people here who like myself for many years past have become familiar with Herr Haider' s offensive statements, the xenophobia of many of his policy elements and the strategy that he has developed of alternating aggressive statements with apologies, sometimes on successive days.
The new regulation for cross-border services will doubtless improve both the functioning of the internal market and the competitiveness and power to act of enterprises.
At present, under Article 99 of the Treaty of Rome, decisions taken at EU level concerning tax changes must be by unanimity.
I would like to finish off by making a general comment on INTERREG.
Does the Council consider that, on the basis of Article 255 of the Treaty, national legislation on transparency can be regulated, that is to say legislation not relating to the EU' s institutions?
That is why the Commission supports Mrs Palacio' s Amendment No 22 in both respects.
I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this report, which the Committee on Budgetary Control adopted with a large majority.
On the other hand, we can go a long way using the existing tools.
Thank you very much.
Even by this stage, that is already too many by far.
We hope that the legal points of view will also be accorded the importance which is only reasonable in a state based on the rule of law.
Firstly, and this is perhaps the basic point of the proposal, the idea, which goes hand in hand with recycling and the use of waste, that we should use materials which will subsequently cause less pollution.
Are there any comments?
It seemed to us that the agenda lacked content, because our group was thinking in terms of the Treaty and, specifically, the protocol on the Union' s institutions.
We should see to it that we recycle as much as possible of the various contents of a product.
Every single day there are attacks on Serbs, on the Roma, on Bosnians, but attacks are also still carried out on Albanians.
A second point where we need to focus our attention is the possibility of nepotism and abuse of power within regional and local councils.
But the Commission is now proposing that training should no longer be included.
If we look at the private sector, however, we will find not only that this fabled 'financial stability' has been unsuccessful but that we are most probably sitting on a volcano ready to erupt at any moment.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radicals and I would like to say to the President of the Council that he has seen what Parliament' s opinion is.
- (FR) The INTERREG Community Initiative is just one element of an ill-fated European regional policy.
However, today we are concerned to learn that other representatives of the Union seem to have turned their backs on the Union' s democratic role.
The Council' s ability to intervene in this matter is strictly limited.
Therefore, the future of this new Commission will depend in no small measure on the extent to which reforms are swiftly undertaken here and financial control is back in working order.
You spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity.
Unfortunately, the new guidelines seem to be heading in the same direction and there are no signs that things will change once they have been implemented.
Where, above all, will the required money come from, and where should this observatory be located?
I can also specifically assure the House that we are not going for what is sometimes called "a big bang approach".
The general impression at present is that anything budget-related within Europe is bad.
One reason for the acceptance of this proposal, and of the campaigns by NGOs such as ATTAC, SOLIDAR or others which have popularised this proposal, is that it would release resources which could be allocated to development programmes in the poorest countries, in areas such as education or health.
As I will say in the debate on the Erika disaster, we do not wait until there is a disaster to deal with the question of safety, but we work on it even when there are no such circumstances, which simply serve to demonstrate the urgency for an effective response to this type of problem.
Who is to pay for recycling the car I bought in France if I register it in Belgium?
Its argument was one of priority.
These concern, for example, the phasing-out of heavy metals, manufacturer' s liability and the requirement for recycling.
In our amendments, we have stated the importance of the necessary synergies being produced between the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and Community initiatives, so that their application should be reflected, in the best and most profitable way, by the gradual elimination of disparities between regions and by the creation of jobs which are, when all is said and done, the two central purposes of the funds we are discussing.
Have you done so, Mr Prodi; have you even read your work programme for the year?
This is why it was justifiable to set up a system of aid to this sector with the aim of ensuring the survival of successful businesses, even if this was in contradiction of Article 4 of the ECSC Treaty.
The whinging about competitive disadvantages is laughable if it only concerns competitive disadvantages sustained by the German car industry.
When it comes to the demands made on the Intergovernmental Conference agenda, it is the call for there to be clear delimitation of competences that should take centre stage.
Europe should not be completely absent, as the states tend to want.
At a time when we are looking at the whole reform process it is critical that we send the right signal.
For it is common knowledge that we could have an even greater disaster on our hands if the fallen timber were to be left in the forests too long.
I should point out that the funds available for regions with problems account for one third of the total budget.
Although, as you will have seen, the dreaded 'millennium bug' failed to materialise, still the people in a number of countries suffered a series of natural disasters that truly were dreadful.
Extremely few members of the Directorate-General for Development, that is to say unit managers and more senior managers, have taken part in the gender courses that have been organised.
There is another central issue relating to democracy that I would like to make clear reference to.
This proactive approach should become the hallmark of the authority.
The efforts made in order to drive up the GDP per capita in Objective 1 regions do not always result in such an increase, not really a satisfying result over a period during which, certainly over the past couple of years, there has been economic growth.
They will not represent an insurmountable cost for the European car industry.
Another major criticism of the text concerns secondary law.
As regards the international aspect of competition policy, I can confirm, Mr Rapkay, that the Commission is willing to provide Parliament with a report on this subject, to which Mrs Randzio-Plath has also drawn our attention. We have very satisfactory bilateral relations with the relevant American, Canadian and Japanese authorities as regards competition policy, and we are working to ensure that competition is treated as a separate topic within the World Trade Organisation.
If we succeed in making progress here, then we will also be ready for the historic task of enlarging the European Union.
Mr Bonde was right to say that there is this image of doing less better and then suddenly we see an annual programme for the year 2000 of 500 proposals and recommendations, which seems to go in a different direction.
We need to make our citizens feel at home, according to Mr Swoboda, and I agree.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and a proposal to subvert it would be legally inadmissible.
An initial joint PHARE/CIP committee is to meet in February to assess this coordination, and let me confirm my attentiveness and availability with regard to this, together with my colleagues and fellow Commissioners Verheugen, Patten and Poul Nielson.
The car industry, increasingly more respectful of the environment, has, I am sure, anticipated this kind of increasing awareness.
We must not and cannot give the impression that the Union exclusively wishes to defend itself from an avalanche of refugees and economic migrants.
We are aware that it is a delicate debate.
It has been communicated explicitly and repeatedly to Kosovar leaders that international support will depend to a large extent on the way non-Albanian minorities are treated.
We have a de minimis notice which contains a declaration that since SMEs are not involved in market dominance they are not normally subject to the strict prohibition under Article 81(1).
We should, above all, not lose sight of this. The impetus given to the European idea by this programme is having an enormous impact, especially on small linguistic areas such as the Netherlands which not only has national potential, but is also relying on support from the programme, mainly from a language point of view.
First of all the report reveals Parliament' s single-minded determination to reduce state aid to ensure that the internal market functions flawlessly.
History is a compendium of events which could have been avoided.
Mr Dimitrakopoulos, transparency is naturally an issue of concern to the institutions.
I would also just like to go into those of the proposed amendments that go beyond the proposed amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Transport safety has sadly been in the news recently: the Paddington rail crash in London, the terrible rail crash in Norway, the two aviation crashes involving EU citizens and the natural disaster involving the Erika off Brittany - all within the last four months - remind us that transport safety can never be taken for granted and that those charged with protecting the public must be highly motivated and highly qualified.
Rapid alert is there for food but not for feed.
I wish to confirm the great importance the Commission attaches, and shall attach, to the urban dimension of our cohesion policy.
But when it comes to aid, we ought to bear in mind that perhaps in future, more emphasis should be placed on laying electricity and telephone cabling underground.
It is important to prioritise general criteria for land planning and demographic equilibrium, and to bear in mind the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the five fundamental issues, which have been only partly taken up by the Committee on Transport, Regional Policy and Tourism in its points 16 and 17.
So far, the promises which have been made are still, however, to be fulfilled, especially where transparency is concerned.
I would ask them the following questions: does your policy seek to marginalise people?
I will only give the example of my own country to illustrate how this system functions there without any problems.
Mr President, first of all, I have only positive comments to make on Mrs Van der Laan' s very expert work on this report.
Allow me to start with the most important demand.
For example, we are currently looking into TAOs. This is a key point but, at the same time, we want to abolish temporary staff at the Commission.
I want to ask Mr Prodi never more to comment on a proposal here in the House which is not, at the same time, available for critical scrutiny by the public.
Speaking in this House on 21 July President-designate Prodi undertook to take full account of the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts on Commission reform, which contains 90 detailed recommendations and which we are debating today.
This social freedom, which becomes manifest in initiatives favouring the poor, gives excellent results in terms of social justice and stability.
The issues to be dealt with at this Intergovernmental Conference are exceptionally sensitive.
The manufacturer is and should be liable and the last holder and/or owner must be able to hand back the car without any cost.
It seems over the top to us for other Member States to be given the option of systematically carrying out inspections systematically with a view to safeguarding public order before they issue cards.
What can the Members of the European Parliament do when faced with such a widespread disaster?
An amendment was therefore made in the committee, but the Commission will now again take account of Parliament' s concern in the revised version and table the guidelines in that form.
Yet these represent a serious threat to the principle of 'non-refoulement' [no turning back].
This is the only way to enforce the strict ban on all aid not covered by the code.
Whatever one may think about the topic of debate, it is evident that it is an important one.
It is just a question of how.
Subject: Commission's rejection of legislation on proper administration in the EU According to newspaper reports, the Commission has rejected the proposal by EU Ombudsman Jacob Söderman for a citizens? right to proper administration in the EU.
By stressing, primarily, the quality of the information provided, our debate in committee, and hence the report which it is my honour to present to you, avoided a simplistic response in the form of an a priori statement that the level of state aid was, in absolute terms, either too high or not high enough.
Even though I approve of the general guidelines of INTERREG III, I feel it is extremely important to ensure better coordination between this programme, financed by the ERDF, and the other external cooperation funds, including in particular the European Development Fund, intended for ACP countries.
What I mean to say is that a few small steps have already been made along the path to normality, and it would be nice if they could at least be listed in the course of such a debate.
No, one must not begin by carrying out a cost-benefit analysis. Instead, the latter should be based upon an assessment of what it is we know, of what science has to tell us and of how we should view the product concerned in the light of the risks we judge there to exist for the environment or for the health of human beings or animals.
It must be rid of some of its more outdated elements; and it must deal with the legitimate concerns of the general public who cannot understand why European civil servants should be paid an expatriation allowance indefinitely in a Europe of open borders, or pay a level of taxes that is often well below that of Member States.
Secondly, we must also clarify our own auditing roles.
It is absolutely essential that companies in areas developing more slowly adopt the latest technology and know-how.
The EU Presidency' s "common reaction" against the formation of the government in Austria is legally unjustified.
The Amsterdam leftovers is not a very good term, because they are very important subjects in themselves.
You say that you will not hesitate to come to this House to request more resources for the Commission, but the Commission must be aware that we are walking on thin financial ice.
That is important and something that can be developed through the Lisbon Summit.
Thank you for your reply.
I can assure you that it was not easy to achieve this, last week in the Committee I chair, but we eventually decided to back the Portuguese Presidency and we would like to win this wager.
I urge the House to support these changes.
If the House agrees, I shall do as Mr Evans has suggested.
. (SV) Mr President, I am pleased to be able to tell you that, in Montreal, we have just signed a protocol concerning bio-safety.
Mr President, on a point of order I should like to ask you for clarification of the Rules of Procedure: namely Rules 133(2) and 138(4). These are both about voting.
Until then, there is really no point in Member States amending their national regulations.
I also welcome Commissioner Busquin's idea to have a common research area for the whole of the European Union.
Do not count on me to keep quiet, without doing or saying anything.
First: we need reasonable deregulation of the railway sector because we want to shift freight from the roads to the railways.
If we were to apply the criteria of Articles 6 and 7 or the Copenhagen criteria to the European Union, then, most certainly, this European Union could not become a member, although the countries of Eastern Europe are required to meet them.
I refer to Eurodac.
We can therefore welcome its adoption.
But I would like to say that safety is a priority objective for the Commission.
As for the argument that this initiative would increase uncertainty, very short-term capital movements are specifically intended to play on uncertainty and to bet on changes between currencies or various short-term financial assets.
I consider that what we should adopt is the form of certification that Mrs Roth-Behrendt speaks about, the identification in the form of green marks on tankers which certain harbours in Europe have brought up for discussion.
The Commission is already considering the implications for the European Union of the recent encouraging developments.
In all these respects we must ensure real, significant change, including setting a time limit for the switch to new standards, including the mandatory double hull, on pain of being banned from the ports or the territorial waters of Member States.
The deadline by which it had to answer the Commission' s questions expired on 6 December 1999 and we have not received a reply.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, I rise to speak on the subject of the World Trade Organisation, on which there is a broad convergence of views between the Commission documents and the positions of the Socialist Group. This is not the case in other areas, as has already been pointed out.
The authority must become the authoritative source of scientific advice and information on food safety issues.
In short, we must not allow real capital and speculative capital to become so remote from each other, because otherwise we shall be steering towards situations which we experienced on this continent time and again during the last century and which had catastrophic results.
The European Union is an economic powerhouse but we are not in a position to pontificate when it comes to our treatment of refugees.
The Commission must define what its fundamental activities are, what it must concentrate on and shed its non-essential activities, thereby freeing up new resources and ensuring a more correct and co-operative relationship with individual countries, regions and local communities.
The French Presidency has passed an important working document to us which sets out various scenarios for addressing and resolving the issues of democratic control and judicial control of Europol.
At a forthcoming review of these programmes, it ought to be established that the EU' s efforts are to be concentrated upon cross-border tasks and adapted to the possible enlargement of the EU.
The decision could have huge implications for our local economy.
The problem facing us at the moment is whether there is currently a consensus within the European Union on this issue being included, particularly bearing in mind that if one such issue is included, other issues of a similar nature will probably be added to the conference' s agenda.
We would also like a clear job description for each European official so that an official with conscientious objections can more easily object to tasks which are unethical or unlawful.
The first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the Union and that the Community Funds have been a major, although not decisive, factor in reducing regional inequalities.
Unless anybody thinks that this is merely a nationalistic point, in the Factortame case, in which the British Government was the defendant, it took ten years for the European Court to give a ruling.
If we are to create a culture of law in Europe, then there is no doubt that the law must be applied not only by the Commission, by central bodies, but also by national authorities, by national courts.
Mr President, we need to speak our minds on this subject in the European Parliament, during the plenary sittings and in the committees, even if it is obvious that the debate must take into account the world of the culture, the legal culture and the places where institutional issues are addressed.
It is strange to claim that if everyone is not included it would be impossible to bring into effect.
The most important recommendations related to the need to improve efforts to reform public sector services, where problems exist, improve the statistical monitoring system and apply preventive policies in accordance with guidelines 1 and 2 of the Action Plan for Employment.
In a religious school, it is logical for an exemption to be requested and accepted in order to ensure that the teacher is of the faith to which the religious school in question belongs.
On 14 February, we will see the launch of the IGC which is to be completed by the end of 2000.
I sincerely hope that, particularly during the French presidency later this year, the Commission and the Council will look carefully at all these options, and I heartily commend this resolution to Parliament.
(Parliament rejected the proposal) President.
What do we expect from a government in any case?
Mr President, Commissioner, in the course of this pivotal year, prior to the changeover to the single currency, the Commission has deployed every effort to ensure the birth of the euro in a favourable environment.
In area after area, we are now obtaining common minimum regulations for the Member States.
It goes without saying that that is not what the European Union' s competition policy is designed to achieve.
The Committee rejected this discriminatory proposal and decided that all refugees should have a place on the EQUAL programme on identical conditions.
We want a Europe based on the principle of diversity within unity.
We are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the Commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised.
However, before the elections we - the Council, the Commission, Parliament, the press, unions and companies that is - worked towards making the Europe we have today more comprehensible to the citizens.
Is it not the case that on votes other than roll-call votes, the vote should take place initially by show of hands and only then, if there is some doubt, should we utilise the electronic voting system?
Thirdly: the extension to Parliament' s rights in this context.
My urgent request on behalf of the Group is that you do everything to ensure that Eurodac is implemented immediately as an instrument to fight asylum abuse and illegality and as an instrument to speed up asylum procedures.
We have to remember that rural areas represent almost four fifths of the territory of the European Union.
No one, not least my party, could begin to disagree that recycling should be encouraged, but the best way to achieve that is to work with the market, not to create another bureaucratic monstrosity.
Our cities are also of decisive importance for Europe' s economy.
However, we must stress that it is vital for approval to be given as soon as possible to the strategy for the new millennium, so as to give a fresh impetus, while preserving continuity, to the work done under the previous action plan.
What is the result?
It also appears in a range of international texts, for example, the Rio Declaration and most recently the Bio-Safety Protocol.
That would erode the independence of the scientific advice.
Perhaps this is a promising avenue to explore, but we must also explore others.
It is a report that has been proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and it is an own-initiative report.
These amendments actually have the advantage - and I should like to stress this - of reconciling environmental constraints and economic imperatives.
Only when all European institutions are reformed will we have the open, democratic and decisive Europe which our citizens now finally deserve.
Such a concern is misplaced.
Despite the fact that the Community, through the structural funds among others, injects considerable sums into combating the disparities between regional development opportunities in Europe, these disparities continue to exist.
I cannot answer that question.
We continue to demand a review of the agreement in order to incorporate better parliamentary and judicial control.
I am very concerned about these translation problems which, unfortunately, we seem to be having increasingly, and I can assure you that we shall look into the matter very seriously indeed.
The Commission believes that major structural change is required in our system of food safety to ensure the twin objectives of assuring the highest standard of food safety and restoring consumer confidence.
It turned its threatened loss of power into an "heroic battle for the preservation of values" and an imminent, pure-and-simple "decision between democracy and non-democracy" .
However, up till now, Austria has committed no serious or persistent violation.
You dare not even call a spade a spade, but instead hide behind pseudo-trendy language by using the term 'governance' for what is nothing more than federal, autocratic, centralised government.
The other parties are not paying.
Just you go home and say: " we have not concerned ourselves with standards to date" .
For the cars currently on the road, it would be reasonable to share the cost, for example by setting up a fund such as that in the Netherlands.
In order to be effective, it must be well anchored in the Member States' national authorities.
It is no accident, Commissioner, that the affected areas are always those European regions which are least developed, those which eke out a meagre existence from tourism and fishing and which, in the majority of cases, do not have any other resources.
In addition to the bilateral meetings with Syria, I hope that Israel will also enter into negotiations with Lebanon within the foreseeable future and that, in the framework of economic and regional cooperation, a multilateral approach will appear possible.
There was only one point that you really stressed - too much in my opinion - and that was that it looks almost as if the highest priority task that you are setting yourself is to cease "unnecessary" activities.
When INTERREG is implemented, it will need to be coordinated and synchronised with the other financial instruments concerned.
Within the Commission, the one hand does not know what the other hand is doing.
Admittedly, an effective competition policy is a prerequisite for the proper operation of the internal market and of economic and monetary union.
Madam President, I should like to tell Mr Wurtz that the Commission' s doctrine is not the Brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty and that, until proved otherwise, we are not in the situation where Articles 6 and 7 would be applicable.
Our food programmes are directly related to structural reforms in agriculture as well as poverty alleviation.
But he would recognise that, as for everybody else, we have to consider his particular proposals and subject them to rigorous examination. That is something that has been done by our rapporteur on the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mr von Wogau.
We must ensure that unemployment rates continue to go down across Europe, confirm the trend in privatisation and deregulation, encourage the insertion of information technology and knowledge of the Internet, show that e-Europe is a good initiative.
Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I would like to start by thanking Mr Graça Moura most warmly for the tremendous efforts he has put into the discussion of this Culture 2000 programme.
To this day I am still awaiting an initiative from the Commission, which will actually enable me to start work.
But opinion differs as to the solution.
People should have clearly-defined powers to take decisions for which they should also be accountable.
What he envisaged was what he called a small, practical secretariat.
I must say I have received extremely contradictory statements from Parliament' s services as to exactly how these Council decisions should be quoted; whether or not one should use the number or date alone, or both, and how extensively to quote from them.
Obviously, such matters should be handled at world level, but the current international regulations of the IMO are far from adequate and are far too loose, and neither our own countries nor the Community have tried determinedly to make them stricter, despite previous disasters.
Think of specialist, national courts with the option of direct appeal to a special competition court at the European Court.
The Commission takes note of these, but several of these guidelines or these questions are related more to other documents, such as the Guide to the Reform of the Structural Funds or the methodological working document.
When it comes to acceptance by the Council, I can only urge the Commission to adopt as many of the amendments adopted by Parliament as possible, even if some of them deviate substantially from the original Commission proposals.
Through cooperation, small, independent firms must be able to stand up to the large chains.
There are enough other options in the present system to safeguard open markets and free competition.
We wish to see an end to this one-sided situation regarding requests for financial aid.
Madam President, I should like to make a request in connection with today' s vote which I started to make yesterday during the debate on the EQUAL report.
It is intolerable that the EU should involve itself in the formation of the government in a Member State.
With regard to the question of Union inspectors, I believe that the principle of subsidiarity justifies the idea that these inspections be carried out by the Member States, which does not mean that the Commission does not have to ensure that the States carry out their duty adequately.
If the Alliance is still active in that region, it is with the same objective.
I shall conclude with one aspect of the use of state aid which I feel is particularly dangerous: the matter of aid resulting in businesses relocating from one Member State to another, with the risk of subsidy hunting which makes no contribution to the shared objectives of the EU.
We can improve on this by punishing crime in Europe quickly, and this must be done at European level.
But the Commission and Council must know that there are many people in this House who have reservations about the Eurodac system, for example.
We are now four months down the line.
Some speakers have already mentioned unemployment and the fall in population.
Mr President, this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life.
This determination to override nations with a legally supranational text is also expressed in the first meetings of the body responsible for drawing up the so-called Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is really a closet constitution.
Mr President, I warmly recommend a vote in favour of the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen resolution, which clearly expresses both our disappointment at the inadequacy of the agenda and our wish that the Intergovernmental Conference should take place as soon as possible.
That is the way it should be.
The Members of Parliament from the Lutte Ouvrière Party shall not be voting in favour of these reports on European competition policy.
Where are the shipowners and those who order the shipments when these disasters occur?
I should now, Mr President, like to bring up the subject of INTERREG and to thank the rapporteur, Francis Decourrière, in the same way that I thanked Arlene McCarthy, for the quality and relevance of his work.
At any rate, the Commission is against any attempt to restrict capital movement within the European Union.
Mr Corbett, I have not received any notification.
It is quite clear that many people within Wales are looking to the European Structural Funds programme to alleviate some of the great difficulties that we undoubtedly face.
Perhaps the reference to the posts is imprecise.
However, that is not the problem.
However, for people with various kinds of physical disability who are in need of special transport and personal assistance, freedom of movement is still highly restricted.
Clearly we are awaiting this reform from the Commission, we are awaiting the proposals which the Commission is going to make to us and this Parliament will have to express its opinion on them.
I find it a little worrying that people are clamouring for independence in this debate without defining what it is in relation to which there is to be independence and without defining what right of decision-making is to be exercised.
I repeat that we have made our position known to the Chinese on Tibet.
Parliament has proposed 4 years, the Commission 7 and the Council 13.
There too, of course, outstanding matters in dispute are the water problem and the situation of the Lebanese Palestinian refugees.
In view of this concentration on a limited number of projects, the publication and dissemination of the results of the new URBAN Community Initiative will perhaps be particularly important to achieve a multiplier effect.
Mr President, tomorrow will see a large majority within the PPE Group vote in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as well as the amended version.
Commissioner, we shall continue to raise the issue, as Article 158, paragraph 1, of the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for an integrated policy for islands.
The results are clear in terms of the improvement of the quality of life in the target areas.
We know what actually happened.
We asked for a whistle-blower' s regulation, and this is now in place.
There is the tragic monument of the Holocaust, the death of 6 million Jews, to those who argued the same case with respect to Germany in the 1930s.
We cannot maintain a situation in which income from non-economic activities increases more and more quickly.
. (FR) Mr Decourrière' s report is not without merit: at the end of a clear and comprehensive presentation of the INTERREG initiative and its role in opening up border regions, it comes out in favour of SMEs in paragraph 16.
If this 'feedback' mechanism, which gives users the opportunity to make choices, were hampered by measures such as the Tobin tax, mistaken decisions might be made that turned out to be so costly in terms of the economic consequences that the tax would never be able to make up for it.
In this Parliament we constantly talk about the need to promote employment and jobs in Europe and yet we constantly pass measures which will have the effect of reducing employment.
This is the new element that we must help to bring to the Balkans.
In order to oppose the xenophobic statements of an apprentice dictator who is nostalgic for the Third Reich, we must take every opportunity we can to express our solidarity with the Austrians opposed to Fascism.
Finally, the report specifically highlights actions in favour of ethnic or sociological minorities.
According to the Commission, external policy can succeed, provided everyone knows exactly who is in charge!
But, obviously, as some speakers have said - and I thank all of you for your totally positive and relevant interventions - we cannot allow a situation where, within one, two or three years, we have to say once again that we have not done what we should have done.
There must always be a commitment to ensuring that we do not only build a Europe of the cities alone.
I also assume that you, Commissioner, want to honour the reputation of, and the work put in by, your predecessors and that your offices will pursue the same objective.
The practical consequence for these regions in the immediate future is that support for border areas will again be downgraded.
It is disgraceful the way in which the German Presidency handled this matter.
Secondly, even if the Commission and the Council adopt a different position on this because they see real problems there, we believe that the other donors must also fulfil the obligations they have entered into.
This is a key priority for us to focus on.
Such dialogue between the national parliaments, the European Parliament and ourselves is extremely important.
(In successive votes, Parliament adopted both legislative resolutions)
What establishes a recognised minority?
One might make the claim that there is no need to state it explicitly in writing because it is an obvious point, but I feel that it is a point that should be made in writing because there is every interest in adopting clear texts.
Mr President, like so many others here today, I believe this is a good measure.
As of 9 February, there will be something known as the Kosovo Transitional Council, which will comprise representatives of the political parties, the minorities and civil society, and which is intended to be a quasi interim parliament.
Madam President, the agenda has been rearranged so many times that I would simply ask the Chamber to support the present proposal.
However, by the same token, there is another Austria, the one where umpteen thousand people demonstrated against the FPÖ having any involvement in government, and who will continue to demonstrate against this government.
Member States, i.e. national authorities, are responsible for implementing this strand. Finally, strand C organises interregional cooperation between different regions of the Member States or third countries to exchange experience under strands A and B and cooperate in the fields of research and technological development, subject to consultation with the European Commission which is responsible for its implementation.
I hope that we will learn the lessons and not repeat this unnecessary exercise which I believe was founded on a misapprehension as to what was expected rather than any bad faith on the part of either of the two institutions.
This reduction in funding has led to a reduction in the number of programmes in the new URBAN initiative.
How many more Erikas do we have to endure before the powers that be deliver to us a proper port state control that is effective throughout the whole of the European Union, not just certain areas of it?
They will instead help industry to be in the vanguard of eventually producing environmentally friendly and more fuel-efficient cars.
Judging from the discussions held over the past five or six months, this could well be the case.
The Council has become prematurely involved without waiting for the results of the coalition negotiations or a programme of government.
(Loud applause)
If Syria would be willing to offer concessions on the security question then the prospects of a successful resolution to the Israel/Syria question might be promising.
We hope that the Commission can reassure us that this was an oversight which is now being dealt with constructively.
The common position does not preclude the possibility of contributions being made by government.
Mr President, we should not forget that the main, strategic objective of the Structural and Cohesion Funds and of their coordination is to achieve economic and social cohesion.
That committee was very clear about the need to abolish the centralised ex ante visa.
The problem so far is that taxpayers paid when something went wrong.
What criteria will the Commission use to approve or reject the Member States' programmes?
As I live in the Sarre-Lor-Lux Sud region of Belgium, I am well aware that the regions are where Europe is being created. They are where we live the European experience on a daily basis and where the people make European construction come alive.
We do not want financial control to be abolished.
Some speakers wanted it to be less bureaucratic, more transparent, and to avoid redundancy in terms of the projects and funding.
Human labour, on the other hand, is considered to be a simple factor in the equation.
As a matter of fact, at the last conference, this issue was raised and discussed on several occasions.
The European Union or individual States must not take over from economic operators, but public authorities must define the rules and objectives which enable the economy to develop in a sustainable fashion.
In relation to Mrs Lynne's question on interim payments: that is a matter that might very well be addressed by Parliament as it relates to budget issues.
Perhaps, in order to strengthen the Union' s democracy, it would now be appropriate to isolate Austria and criminalise a party that was democratically elected by the Austrian citizens, while bringing Turkey and its "Grey Wolves" into Europe.
This tax could help to check speculation without penalising the activities of the real economy. It could release new resources for investment in people and, at a time when the UNDP estimates the sum needed to eradicate poverty to be USD 40 billion per year, it could allow access for everyone to drinking water and satisfy health needs.
We have taken good note of your intentions.
Only the legal advisers to multinationals could demonstrate such stubbornness.
There will be a functioning majority and likewise a functioning opposition.
I would like to congratulate Lousewies van der Laan.
However, you also said something which I find particularly frightening.
I do not accept that a practical transposition problem should give rise to changing the law.
In fact, according to the experts, the oil the Erika was carrying was supposed to sink to the bottom and should never have reached the coast.
We want less confusing control and more parliamentary control by the European Parliament, without hampering the work of Europol.
I am pleased to see that the debate on Mrs McNally' s report with a view to increasing and facilitating women' s participation in professions in research and science, met with a fairly wide consensus.
I understand that Portugal is affected by this.
There are two fundamental questions in particular.
Before giving the floor again to the President of the Commission, I must tell you that I have received, pursuant to Rule 37, seven motions for resolutions to conclude the debate.
I want to deal with these amendments on a group-by-group basis.
We hope that the Council will also make an effort to subject itself to the control of this Parliament.
It is indeed the case that globalisation of national economies, but above all the introduction of the euro and the associated stability pact have led to a situation where we need to do more than analyse decision-making processes.
We will obviously do this and will also forward a report to you on it.
That is very much the right approach.
Subject: Opportunities of the disabled to take advantage of freedom of movement within the EU Under Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, it should be possible for all EU citizens to take advantage of freedom of movement within the Union.
There is one thing, however, that we cannot deny, and that is that Mr Kouchner' s efforts to return Kosovo' s internal situation to normal have been extremely positive.
Saying that the cultural dimension is governed by the principle of subsidiarity and that it is therefore national governments who are responsible is, I am afraid, just an excuse.
Even so, I think the positions are quite clear and they shall be entered in the Minutes.
But let me remind honourable Members that the European Union is no slouch when it comes to financial support for the peace process.
I also welcome the White Paper.
I would like to congratulate the regional authorities, the volunteers and the public services on the fantastic way in which they rallied round but, unfortunately, their troubles are not yet over.
This is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital.
This White Paper is a response to the challenges that enlargement is forcing on us, an enlargement that is forcing us to rethink the workings of all our institutions, rethink our very policies - all our policies - and above all rethink what we must continue to do at Union level when the Member States number 25 or 30, and what will be the best thing to do at individual State level, at regional level and at local government level.
Do not be fooled by the car manufacturers!
We therefore ask that his programme be a bold one and, if it is, I can assure him that he will have the support of this House in the reform process.
There are few things more certain in life than taxes, death and pollution.
I am counting on the Commission, and specifically on you, Commissioner, to allocate adequate resources for effective action.
It is, of course, thoroughly Orwellian.
So we have really worked through this document and I am sure that they are all able to describe the guidelines and the principles as laid down in this document.
Although there is this disagreement, I should stress that all three institutions agree on the content and that every effort is being made to find a common approach to this particularly important and sensitive question which concerns an exceptionally large number of working doctors throughout Europe.
The conclusion is that we must make the case for guidelines to be broad, indicative and flexible to assist our programme managers and fund-users and to get the maximum potential out of our new fields of regeneration.
We wholeheartedly support the programme as it is now laid down in a consultative document and which is also included in the programme of Vice-President, Mr Kinnock, on behalf of the Commission.
It is certainly possible, indeed it must be feasible for state aid to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises involved in research and development for the purpose of educating them in regional and environmental policy.
Regarding the first proposal on third-country employees, the Commission is prepared to adopt Amendments Nos 2, 11, 12, 15, 16 and 22.
So long as we continue to have unanimity, so long as yesterday the Dutch Government was able to impose those EUR 167 million as an ultimatum and so long as a government with Mr Haider will soon be telling us what cultural activities we can pursue, we will never progress.
I am not so sure that our Dutch Members will be reassured on the grounds that the Irish Members too are unable to receive a national channel.
We have tried to defend peace by taking military action.
I hope that the Minister will take some time to pursue that particular issue.
I would also like to say a few words on Africa, Madam President.
- (SV) The most important task of the approaching Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States.
So we are watching that entire point extremely carefully.
How will we judge, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the five years of our mandate?
What your texts do not make apparent is the extent to which these major, high-minded objectives are compatible with the resources that the Commission intends to deploy.
The only merit of this directive is that it looks to the future.
Workers are facing a massive attack on their employment and social rights.
When it comes to pollution, like sin, we are all against it, but from there it is a far cry from believing that just because a measure is proposed against this evil it is necessarily good.
Everyone feels that this kind of joint tax is a virtuous measure which does not prevent trade but is aimed primarily at speculation and its perverse effects. The Members on the right should note this.
At the Commission' s proposal and after approximately two years of consultation with social agencies, Member States and the European Parliament, a number of exceptions have been made.
My region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais will be particularly affected with French Hainaut losing the aid paid to Objective 1 regions.
However, I would just like to add the following.
With regard to Schengen, without wishing to trespass on the territory of the Council, or more precisely the incorporation of the Schengen acquis into the Community framework, I would like to stress, on the topical subject of restoring border controls, that the Commission wishes to reiterate its willingness to ensure greater control of the application of Article 2(2) of the Schengen Convention in order to reinforce its authority.
It is in the area of supply that small business plays an important role and we must not fail to also take account of the interests of those employed in small and medium-sized enterprises.
Consequently, we must support an amendment which at least permits exceptions in the case of particularly economical cars.
In order to assert our fundamental values, they need to be laid down in writing, as a matter of urgency, and, beyond this IGC, I believe we owe Europe a constitution.
Firstly, it is necessary, in drawing up the legislation, to produce clear and complete rules.
And so, Mr Seppänen, I shall also mention at this point, speaking of the national level, the link with the Cohesion Fund.
We see this, now that the government of one Member State is being joined by a party which, as is known, does not respect all these values.
I hope that we can thrash this out.
The whole question as to whether we have the legal authority to do this has been outlined by Mrs Palacio.
There is one point about the impact for firms which is of great importance. This was raised by Mrs Thyssen, Mrs Peijs and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi: the issue of SMEs.
This issue needs to be explored further in both cultural and practical terms.
This plan is designed to increase its energy potential by 2%.
We now have a framework programme, the first of its type for the cultural sector, and this programme makes it possible for us to plan our action from a new perspective and to work to promote culture in a more comprehensive, but also more thorough and detailed manner.
We do need to obtain, from the Commission and the Council, in other words from each of the governments forming the Union, a clear, positive or negative, political stance. They must indicate whether they are ready to defend, within competent public bodies such as the International Monetary Fund in the first instance, the appropriateness of such a tax within the other instruments needed to stabilise the international monetary system.
This needs to be said!
As an integral part of a value-added structure, the White Paper proposes that the authority would have a major role in risk communication: to disseminate complex scientific information in a consumer-friendly way; to be the obvious and indispensable port of call for the most up-to-the-minute data on risk; to be highly visible; to tell the good news story about food; to be proactive.
My third and last point concerns the role of the European Union.
That is not what Mr Prodi is President of today.
We are not making the connection so that the citizens can actually do something concretely either at home or in their offices or in industry to support action against global climate change.
I believe that the Portuguese Presidency can contribute positively to this.
I did not hear Mr Duisenberg criticising the intervention of the American monetary authorities to save the hedge fund, LTCM.
Furthermore, we should utilise an extraordinary budget line, since this is an extraordinarily catastrophic situation.
So carelessness within the Commission in the spending of money is not likely to put at risk vast quantities of money.
As the present crisis involving Austria has demonstrated, the Union has the right to protect itself.
We must win back their faith in EU politics.
Madam President, as my dear friend Elly will know, I will do anything to make her and my Dutch colleagues happy.
The concerns of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as articulated in its position, together with those of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, will also be taken full account of in this process.
The total appropriation allocated is not up to the challenge.
So a great deal has to be done in this area.
Some countries - such as France and Spain - managed to meet the challenge, giving rise to great nation States; other countries - such as Italy - did not meet this challenge and lost all the headway that they had accumulated during the first part of that millennium: headway in science, technology, economic progress, defence structures and military organisation, philosophy and literature.
I also think it essential to step up the level of inspection that the charterer is responsible for, in this case, the oil company.
This is a big task but it can be done.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, businesspeople have so far had to live with the fact that two of the key freedoms, namely the free movement of people and services, did not apply to them.
The United Nation' s, and Mr Kouchner' s, mission in Kosovo ended in failure.
In other words, as indeed already remarked by Mr Gasòliba, globalisation is, in my view, positive, and I am of the opinion that it has contributed to a new international distribution of labour which has been pursued by many people for many years.
It is desirable for Member States to have a certain amount of freedom to determine the number of projects themselves within the confines of a certain budget.
It is obvious to me that the regional and local authorities, and their representative bodies, the Committee of the Regions and, of course, the European Parliament should have been involved in the clearest way possible and at the earliest possible opportunity framing this programme.
We have the feeling, and are in fact convinced, that the Member States would be more than happy to withdraw the things they wrote in 1992 in the Treaty of Maastricht.
I would ask you to take on board local indicators to help us do that.
In the age of globalisation, which we do want to facilitate with a framework of specific rules that will provide guarantees to the economic operators and consumers, the European Commission cannot forget solidarity, and must call for its implementation through the use of all of man' s spiritual resources in his relations with his fellow man.
The promotions procedure must be made fairer and more transparent.
That is why I believe that we were right to take action quickly, to recognise the urgency of the situation and make funds available.
With the convening of the forthcoming IGC, the process of European Union is topical once again.
It is not a situation that most people in this Parliament want, but we need to be careful about the approach we take, so that we do not in the end up with the opposite of what we are trying to achieve.
I hope you might discuss this in your political groups so that we can have a better structured session with the Commission on such future occasions.
Unlike Mrs Kaufmann, I am not in favour of extending supervision over the European Central Bank as I am an advocate of independence for the European Central Bank.
The INTERREG Community Initiative Programme is an extremely important tool in terms of the development and regional planning of European territory, most particularly with reference to effectively taking into account the relationship between the centre of the European Union and its outlying regions.
We have been asked for EUR 35 million.
We have arrived at the final question.
These would, of course, be to the advantage of modern, progressive car manufacturers who think in environmentally friendly terms.
. (FR) Mr President, before my friends and fellow Commissioners, Franz Fischler and Anna Diamantopoulou, in turn come to speak - since all three of us who are responsible for these four Community initiatives have had the opportunity to follow this debate with the same interest, I would like to endeavour to speak on the subject of URBAN and INTERREG, which many of you have brought up and discussed.
Here there are only three which the Commission cannot accept, Amendments Nos 3, 12 and 13.
For my group, enlargement is the first priority against which all the other possibilities for reform must be measured, be they governance, be they the intergovernmental conference, be they reform of the institutions.
The first priority is to improve the competitiveness of regional economies in order to create, in all sectors, but especially in the private sector, as Mr Berend said, the maximum number of serious, worthwhile and permanent jobs, the competitiveness of regional economies, all regional economies, and in particular, Mr Evans, that of Wales, but not only of Wales.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
It is a sad fact that there are many hundreds, if not thousands, of communities in the European Union suffering very severe poverty and disadvantage.
I remain worried about the whole operation of the judicial process.
Is the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference not the ideal opportunity for this?
Thirdly, because it sets out a clear procedure to combat pollution caused by heavy metals.
Mr President, our committee welcomed the priorities proposed by the Commission for the URBAN programme of better integration of local communities and ethnic minorities and improved security and crime prevention.
Secondly, will this not compound the problem of over-regulation from Brussels and under-implementation in the Member States?
Therefore Europe must be clearly committed to the Kyoto Protocol and make specific proposals.
I would like to remind you that these initiatives are aimed, firstly, in the case of URBAN, at improving the quality of life of the citizens who live in the poorer parts of various European cities, and, in the case of INTERREG, at facilitating cohesion and recognising the diversity and potential of the regions of the European Union, particularly by including the outermost regions in strands B and C.
I condemn Jörg Haider' s racist and xenophobic policy.
I would hope that the contribution of ALTENER would lead to more initiatives.
A flexible Europe, is a Europe which respects its national democracies, which relies on the support of its nations, its national patriotisms, instead of continually persecuting them.
This is an important aspect of this initiative.
But, secondly, the projects will put a strain on, indeed will be injurious to, the national democracies.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union' s regional policy has, until now, not been able to interpret, in any significant way, the existing differences in our inhabitants' incomes.
Should the European Union fail to take action, then Member States would be obliged to amend their national legislation for a very brief period, until the CEN completes its work, which would cause unnecessary cost and uncertainty.
The fundamental problem is that, at the moment, the distribution of the burden amongst the different donors has been established in the statements of the High Level Steering Group, but it is also true that they have no legal status. This is simply a political commitment.
I do not know your exact view in this respect, Mr Kinnock, but it is clear that we want Commissioners who are politically strong and politically committed.
Once again there are special areas of policy-making which should be left to the domain of the national Member States.
The European Commission' s sixth report presents very valuable conclusions.
Madam President, I would like to make a few comments.
But Europe is changing.
I should like to ask the Commissioner if she can provide any approximate deadlines in connection with this matter, for it is a problem which needs clarification in the context of the Danish socio-political debate.
We are convinced that the opposite is true, and we do not think that state aid is by definition excessive.
We hope that those considering rejection of these amendments have very powerful reasons to offer to both Parliament and their citizens who are seeking employment.
What we find most shocking is the fact that this joint intervention claims the authority of the Treaty, as if this stated somewhere that henceforth the free and democratic expression of a people could be cancelled by the will of the heads of government of neighbouring countries who in fact, in this instance, have carefully refrained from consulting their own peoples.
My thoughts also turn to Bernard Kouchner' s efforts, of the stability pact that we all vigorously support with total dedication, but I also think of new events, such as Croatia, where the situation has changed in a few weeks: the European institutions immediately opened the way to dialogue with this country and received the news knowing full well that the only way to resolve not only Bosnia' s problems, but more particularly Serbia' s problems is to throw a curtain of democracy around Serbia.
The Erika disaster shows that when sound traffic and transport regulations are lacking at international and European level, nature and the environment come off second-best.
The key factor in this text as it has been amended, is the call for a Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into the treaties.
It is no less incumbent on the other donor countries to fulfil their obligations within this timeframe, in the interests of the persons affected.
I would therefore ask the Commission if it would wish to consider continuation of monitoring and for what length of time they might consider monitoring in future to see the long-term effects, not just of depleted uranium weapons but of some of the other effects on the environment that we do know have occurred at least in a localised way within Kosovo?
If the services of the Presidency confirm that this was correctly tabled, it will be included.
I am pleased to see that we have today arrived at a compromise motion.
What we have to do, and we in the European Union are already doing it, is to guarantee Mr Kouchner all the necessary resources, and you are right, Mr Rübig, we have a duty to our citizens to explain to them regularly and openly whether or not these resources are being properly used.
But, as Mr Lange so rightly said, this solution is totally unfair to European car manufacturers.
In Germany, there would probably be dancing in the streets if we were to say that we were holding a referendum on payments to the European Union and we shall pay if the German people are prepared to pay.
Renewable energy sources lower dependency on imported energy and their increased use boosts competitiveness.
We already have a directive.
I have also been arrested for protesting at Faslane.
I ask for your support.
We can take action against this; it is possible.
To really guarantee sustainability - a buzzword which has, since it gained new currency, become relatively devoid of meaning, but we all know what we mean by it - what is needed, amongst other things, is an integrated approach in the countryside towards, for example, tourism and agriculture.
Mr President, a White Paper, by definition, is not something you can take or leave.
My delegation of 37 Conservative and Unionist Members from the United Kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy, programme and tone of Austria' s Freedom Party.
For how much longer is the Commission going to leave LEADER at the experimental stage instead of bringing it online as part of the general concept of mainstreaming of rural development?
Parliament supports this.
Jörg Haider' s rise to power, with the inauguration of a conservative right-wing and FPÖ coalition government, is a sign of the terrible revival in Europe of a monster to which liberalism has given birth.
Where failure is occurring within the Commission we need to hold people responsible.
My party can be relied upon to see to it that my country holds firm to the course of European politics and continues to be rooted in the European community of values!
This means that we move away from shredding.
We know that in the Netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end-of-life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the European Union.
The Austrian extreme right has been gifted an unwarranted present.
Why should the very same people as taxpayers or as future car buyers, pay again to dispose of the vehicle that the manufacturer has made the profit from?
Relating to Friday, on Friday morning we have an oral question on postal services and the Group of the Party of European Socialists is requesting that the motions for resolutions should be put to the vote immediately after the debate and not in Brussels, as envisaged in the final version of the draft agenda.
Question No 44 by (H-0819/99):
We think it is wrong to talk about the Commission' s liability as an institution.
It is thanks, too, to Parliament' s action, preferring a number of small-scale measures to be carried out close to the citizens' cultural roots rather than vast measures on a spectacular scale.
There is a danger of Amendments Nos 31 and 41 reducing the chances of recycling plastic, tyres and glass.
There is time.
Last week, the new Minister for Finance of the Austrian coalition described the Austrian Parliament as a farce and a theatre.
There is a willingness but fear pervades, and to assuage this fear we must find political and religious leadership not only in Ireland but throughout the European Union.
However, we have acknowledged that this is an innovative and very welcome initiative by the Commission.
I believe EU consumers will support those car manufacturers that incorporate the most environmentally-friendly practices in the coming year.
It could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time.
The proposal to set up a European public prosecutor service is a very sensitive one.
The amendment to the directive is consequently in full accordance with the principle of subsidiarity; the Member States obtain more powers.
This is an important sign that majority voting is a crucial pre-requisite to the European Union' s being able to function come what may.
The proposal for a legislative act of this kind should contain an independent statute for this body and define its tasks, which are confined to inquiries and criminal prosecution undertaken by OLAF into activities which are to the detriment of the Union' s financial interests, and to OLAF' s relationship with the national authorities.
It would be Europe' s undoing if we were to end up with just a few multinationals and no future for small and medium-sized businesses in Europe.
The Commission kept to the actual text of Article 10 of the Structural Funds regulations, which stipulates that the aim of these guidelines is to provide Member States with broad, indicative guidelines on relevant and agreed Community policies.
It is not rather ambitious to ensure peace, democracy and human rights in the whole of Europe, no less?
At the same time, it is an especially delicate issue because it deals with the protection of the Community' s financial interests, as Mrs Theato has explained very well.
I wish to add a voice of concern on the topic of subsidiarity, not just between Union and Member States but between Member States and their own internally self-governing regions.
What we need, then, are basic administrative regulations for the EU, for its institutions and for the EU in its relations with the Member States.
We are concerned about stability on the financial markets, not for the sake of the financial markets, but because this has to do with own growth, our own investments and our own jobs in the European Union.
Madam President, I agree with the fine words with which the rapporteur began his intervention and I must add that, during the conciliation procedure, I was personally a little disappointed with the Council.
Berger Report (A5-0007/2000)
Commissioner, I would like to come back again to my first question, when I asked about the other Commissioners, for it may have sounded as though I was in jest.
Since we are talking about the Intergovernmental Conference, let us consider just two points.
This would allow Member States great flexibility to tailor development cooperation to their own particular needs.
We are also pleased to see certain statements and intentions which it contains and which Mr Prodi has just underlined and, in some cases, usefully clarified.
Although there are now two Finnish channels and one Portuguese one, there is still no Dutch channel, which is what I had requested because Dutch people here like to be able to follow the news too when we are sent to this place of exile every month.
I would like to say that this report represents a huge improvement, also with its amendments.
As the representative for a French overseas department, the island of Réunion, a land of racial and ethnic intermixing, where the population has been forged in the course of the last three centuries by the successive contributions of Europeans, blacks from Africa or Madagascar, enlisted men from India or Pakistan, or even Chinese, every day I experience the profound truth of the remark by Saint-Exupéry, "In being different to me, you are not doing me harm, brother, but enriching me!"
Mr President, we are indeed now in a very rare situation: those who wish to uphold environmental values will take the side of the Council in their common position.
I do not have these concerns.
In this document, the Commission proposes to stimulate debate with a view to promoting the increased participation of women in research in Europe.
Having said that, governing means planning. It also means being responsible and, in this new context which has been forced upon us, competition law naturally has an essential role to play.
The Union has ambitious goals with regard to increasing the use of renewable energy.
The Commission can commit itself to regularly informing Parliament of the invitations to tender which are published.
Well, that depends on who the legislators are.
Indeed, the new Commission has now declared itself in favour of follow-up checks having this independence, and so would it not make sense for a system of prior approval to enjoy such independence as well?
Mr President, every time there is a disaster of this kind people say it must never happen again.
I urge Parliament to support our Amendment No 2, which would ensure flexibility so as to include new areas, particularly on maritime borders.
We must hold fast to joint decision-making institutions which embrace the Member States.
I think that given the dramatic circumstances, and as a matter of principle, it would be ill-advised and inappropriate to hold several votes.
Will you do everything in your power to ensure that a statute for assistants is adopted as soon as possible?
I recognise the relevance of the arguments that Mr Souladakis has put forward.
The situation varies to an enormous degree throughout the regions.
We share the widespread outrage at its attitude to history, in particular World War II, but also its policies on enlargement, on immigration, on race and its attitude to the European Union itself.
I ask the Commission what can be done to speed up implementation in this particular area.
The one unanimously adopted amendment of the Committee on Regional Policy and Transport, which concerns the timetable for implementing the directive, is something which I would urge you to support.
But, going beyond this petty political operation, what the majority in the European Parliament is afraid of most of all is that the threat to the left-right cohabitation in Austria, which caused political life to stagnate and rot, may soon spread to the European system of co-management which is producing equally appalling results.
On the other hand, with regard to point d of Amendment No 10, which refers to the first directive, you suggest that, for reasons of public security or public order regulations, a Member State may reject the validity of the card.
The Socialist Group will be voting to grant discharge.
It is really surprising that the Commission does not treat the revision of one of its common policies as a strategic objective for the coming years, in view of the reform which must take place in 2002.
Then you decide to take a measure or not, to take action or not.
Therefore, and given that the relationship between the European Union and the Commission and Turkey has now changed, it would be a good idea if Turkey discussed certain matters relating both to the safety of the area in general and the peaceful development of Turkey within the European Union.
This is riding roughshod over the European institutions in order to defend political ways of thinking, with an incompetence worthy of parties which have just emerged from totalitarian regimes. It is not what you would expect of the representatives of democratic traditions.
And more than this - and this is more prosaic, Madam President, it means that we have the ability to learn from previous policy initiatives by putting them into action in new programmes that are comprehensive, that are cross-cutting and that benefit our creative industries to the extent that they now require.
Two years ago, in Cavalese in Italy, an American aeroplane from the Aviano NATO base cut through the cables of a cable car during a low-flying exercise which exceeded safe limits, causing the deaths of more than 20 Europeans.
We need to be careful and be sure that national governments try to convince their respective parliaments to ratify solutions that correspond to the Union' s requirements for growth and that they do not hide behind supposed resistance put up by the parliaments to avoid signing appropriate conclusions at the Intergovernmental Conference table.
There are many interesting questions relating to it, the monitoring centre, the principle of concentration etc.
Kosovo has suffered far too much from delays in payment.
A good opportunity to discuss the results, good practices and shortcomings of the earlier programmes was therefore lost.
Our citizens cannot accept that the European Union takes decisions in a way that is, at least on the face of it, bureaucratic.
The FPÖ party is established in Austria' s political landscape.
Competition is a war which has major concerns fighting each other, which constantly takes the form of layoffs, factory closures, not to mention extensive waste of production capacity.
While conveying a desire to proceed rapidly, it also gives the impression that the Commission is in transmission rather than listening mode.
Indeed, we must say and keep saying that the Erika is one disaster too many.
The Commission is following with interest the planned construction of a nuclear power plant in Akkuyu, Turkey and recognises the importance of ensuring that the construction of the new plant follows the highest internationally accepted nuclear safety standards.
There are many people who maintain that they entail major risks, while others question how large the risks involved in these substances really are.
It is therefore down to the states and regions to ensure the quality of the data provided, and our committee considers that additional efforts must be made in this respect.
Madam President, I can assure your Parliament that my day-to-day work consists partly of attempting, in conjunction with my offices and colleagues, to completely integrate the financial markets within Europe, thus enabling financial transactions to run as easily and smoothly as possible.
For this reason, it is right to look at the issue of safeguarding common interests, and to establish better links with legal systems within the individual States.
We need to deploy the energies of the unemployed, the underused skills of youth and the experience of age to tackle these problems.
Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the LEADER report, rural development is very much to the fore.
The content of the proposal concerns the average 48-hour working week of doctors, with the possibility, following negotiation, of increasing it to 54 hours.
This is an effective, transparent way to proceed and involve all the European institutions and the citizens of Europe.
I understand that there is agreement on this issue.
It shows a concern with the accounting involving own resources, the process of making them available or with the monitoring of declared amounts made available to the Commission.
But in common with others, we too are having to endure the greenhouse effect.
Promoting the use of renewables is especially important for the environment.
It allows a choice to be made only where special qualifications are needed which relate directly to the activity in question.
This will oblige us to reconsider the registers in the European Union, and to deal with the notorious problem, which will no doubt arise again, of the aim of a Community register.
We are all aware - and this Parliament has been the steadfast champion in this respect - of the need to protect the financial interests of the Community. But be careful.
Madam President, the Socialist Group proposes the following oral amendment.
It is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
Of course, a prerequisite for that is cooperation between the Member States, and a network which will assist the exchange of experience.
This must naturally lead to a reformulation of development goals and strategies, together with a transformation of institutions and processes so that both women' s and men' s priorities and needs are better reflected.
Then, and only then, might you consider if human rights are affected.
It will include a proposal on general food law which will embody the principles of food safety such as responsibility of feed manufacturers, farmers and food operators, traceability of feed, food and ingredients, proper risk analysis through, for instance, risk assessment - that is, scientific advice and information analysis - risk management - that is, regulation and control - risk communication, and application of the precautionary principle if and when appropriate.
Furthermore, behind these programmes, that is to say, the SAVE programme, which concerns greater efficiency and energy savings, and the Altener programme, which concerns renewable energy, there lies an extremely important technological challenge, which, from an economic point of view, may offer significant opportunities to industry and also for the creation of jobs in our countries and therefore in the Union as a whole.
And our current EU mantra is AFSJ: Area for Freedom, Security and Justice.
During the Christmas break, when the Dutch media received attention for the Erika disaster, I had a look, just out of interest, on the Internet to see what arrangements were, in fact, already in place for the purpose of taking relevant measures, especially after Premier Jospin had said that Europe should do more.
There will be no meeting today in Shepherdstown but we must hope, as Mr Patten said just now, that this postponement of the negotiations due to Syrian requirements will only represent one more step on the road to a peace agreement which will change the face of the Middle East.
In this respect, the Commission document has shortcomings, as it makes no recommendation to the Member States to simplify procedures and national legislation for the presentation and examination of projects by the national authorities, and for their funding, execution and monitoring.
My other question concerns Africa, which is the only continent not mentioned in 'Shaping the New Europe'.
'Long-winded' .
These are events and situations that cannot be tolerated.
The Commission decides whether the Member States may impose certain rules of their own. In so doing, it is supported by a committee of experts on the transport of dangerous goods under the regulatory procedure.
We need a competition policy which can and will introduce controls on the activities of these private-sector monopolies.
I would also ask the Commission whether an analysis has been undertaken of the implications of this change for business: a cost-benefit analysis of the sort that is now becoming so much more European policy.
I talked with farmers whose ewes were aborting their lambs due to drinking the infected water.
Some of you may find it lacks detail, but no political structure sets out detailed five-year programmes.
If Mrs Schreyer is to visit the Black Forest sometime in the next few days, then any one farmer might ask her how the Commission and Europe would be able to help him as an individual.
Talks in Austria on forming a government
In its proposal the Commission called for an observatory for the LEADER+ programme without going into detail on how this proposal would be implemented.
When there is growth, it must be better distributed, but a matter that is even more difficult and which more seriously affects the regions handicapped by their remoteness, be they the most remote or island regions, is the lack of growth which generally characterised the last two decades.
I would like to thank the presidency for the comprehensive answer to my question, and indeed the Minister who spoke to the Committee on Development last week in Brussels outlining the position.
Fourthly, we need the shipowner to bear liability, and not just to the tune of a derisory USD 12 million, but to the value of at least USD 400 million, to be covered per insurance certificate.
Reading now what happened then, not even a year ago, it becomes clear that that first report was intended to do anything but serve the cause of truth or reform, as is maintained today, so much so that this second report - which, on the other hand, could have provided much more salient points - was commissioned with the precise mandate not to address specific cases, since there is no intention to follow up the offences detailed in this report.
Orders in the steel industry and the ship-building industry - we also spoke about this a while ago - have decreased drastically, resulting in a loss of jobs.
These discussions have already started, but we will need to take account of the results in Lisbon.
Five months are provided for this.
How negotiations are proceeding there, we still do not know.
We must make the perpetrators liable for all manner of damage done to our environment.
If you look carefully, this proposed tax on capital is just one of several instruments aimed at forcing international investors to behave responsibly on the financial markets.
It is unacceptable that the Commission completed the construction of a hospital in 1996 and that, as yet, it has been left unused.
No one can ignore the challenge to civilisation posed by the lack of nearly one billion jobs and the need to make unprecedented efforts in terms of development and access to information.
They are already having implications for resource availability.
With regard to INTERREG, we are very happy that there is a reference to the creation of a European monitoring centre concerned with cooperation.
The CSU European delegates have no sympathy whatsoever with the leader of the FPÖ.
The essence of the precautionary principle is clear.
I thought at least they read the resolutions they were going to vote on.
If not, will it explain how the Directive is to be complied with in this area?
The same determination to reduce nations to the level of mere administrative regions is also evident on every page of the opinion issued by the Commission for the Intergovernmental Conference.
If one puts all the money together and creates synergy then one can be a tiny bit satisfied, but then only a tiny bit.
Members, who, in the course of this debate, have properly praised Commission officials, who in the great majority and typically are of high integrity, hard-working and of great capability, are absolutely right in the comments that they have made.
These include a comprehensive information gathering and surveillance function, the coordination of scientific information in the EU, and building up strong networks with food safety agencies and bodies in Member States.
In that respect, nothing. On the contrary, extending the Community' s legal competence within the framework of the third pillar has increased the burden.
Instead of prematurely condemning the FPÖ and the Austrian Government which is being formed, there should first be a critical examination and assessment of the governmental declaration and the party programme and policies of the coalition.
To do so also changes the owner' s liability retroactively.
The challenge now is to have the courage to devolve as many non-core tasks as possible back to lower levels of national, regional and local government.
Having tried for many years to persuade us by talking of shared sovereignty, you are now revealing your ultimate goal. You intend to trade in all European sovereignty, whether national or collective, for a world government in which you do not even expect to obtain a dominant position.
We must take more account of the guidelines produced at the Kyoto environmental conference.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti.
We will continue to do that with energy and with consistency and as Mr Cox said in the debate, 'necessarily with acute vigilance' .
By entrepreneurship I do not simply mean the ownership of business, but creating will.
The programmes clearly have to take the annual budgetary contributions into account.
Perhaps this is also why, as is rumoured to be the case, the Council has become bogged down in its negotiations on this as well.
In the past the British Conservatives' double standards have brought the United Kingdom' s House of Commons into disrepute, and there is a very real danger that such behaviour would have a similar impact on this Parliament.
It is also necessary to exercise authority as closely as possible to the citizens, where it can be exercised with due transparency and can be monitored by the citizens themselves.
EQUAL is a very difficult programme because it attempts to combine so many old programmes and yet aims to view them in a different light, doing so with less money than was available in the previous funds.
The next item is the report (A5-0001/2000) by Mr van Hulten, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on action to be taken on the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts on reform of the Commission.
I am glad to see that this was accepted into the report, but I cannot agree with Amendment No 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all.
It sets in stone one particular model of recycling.
These are the values which we ask of others who seek to join us.
It has also had the distinction of strengthening the role of local authorities, the non-governmental sector and local communities and of supporting new partnership approaches to urban regeneration.
But seriously.
Since then, Community VAT fraud and distortions in the calculation of GDP, the taxable basis for the fourth resource, have had a perceptible effect on the yield and justice of Community resources.
Parliament voted in favour of this text.
They are political because we are moving on.
Several Members have made that point again in the course of today's debate.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that the unfortunate incident involving the Erika should in fact, as others have said this afternoon, constitute a decisive watershed which will see the end to this type of accident in the European Union where, since 1967, there have been seventeen accidents involving large oil tankers; more than one every two years.
Mr President, I am taking the floor to speak about INTERREG, but I shall confine myself to a few criticisms, which will clearly also enable me to keep to my speaking time.
We must also ask the Commission not to prevent local authorities and individual States from coming to the assistance of businesses affected by the disaster by applying Community competition rules too strictly.
We also agree with the rapporteur about asking for more attention to be paid to small and medium-sized undertakings and, of course, about refusing to use outside service providers.
I am only very surprised that the Socialist group would like to subordinate this proposal to one tabled by Mrs Morgan, because she wants to scrap it altogether.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, during the Asian crisis in 1997, as with those which hit Mexico in 1995 or the EMS in 1993, everyone could see the damage caused to the economies of entire countries by financial speculation, particularly currency speculation.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0107/1999) by Mr Berend, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union [SEC(99)0066 - C5-0120/99 - 1999/2123(COS)].
We will be organising and supporting actions including, in particular, the debate on the need for a legislative programme on implementing mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters.
Mr President, Commissioner, regarding the relationship between science, on the one hand, and applying the precautionary principle on the other, the communication states that invoking that precautionary principle always requires a political decision if there is a lack of scientific evidence.
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr Jonckheer, Mrs Thyssen and Mr Gemelli raised the issue of the state of preparation of the candidate countries in terms of competition in general and of State aid.
It is therefore only right that the European Union should draw up Community rules on how these nine million vehicles every year are to be recycled and processed.
For example, in recent years Italy has had problems in utilising the Structural Funds, mainly because of excessive bureaucracy, insufficient information and a lack of involvement of economic and social operators at local level.
Both I and other MEPs utterly reject such a drastic change of system.
I would like to add that Amendment No 10 to that proposal is wholly acceptable.
The Commission also supports the proposed flexible period of validity of the card.
We are certainly in favour of this strategic vision but we need to be brave and ambitious.
Regions which, culturally and economically, sometimes match the interest of some Member States.
Commission's strategic objectives and legislative programme
In this connection, too, weight has to be given to the decisive importance of SMEs as employers and forces behind regional development.
That is an area that European citizens will respond to and will be happy about.
The training then would be automatically performed without being compulsory.
I would also like to fully support his comments on the need to allow the regions - such as the Basque Country, which I represent - a margin for action, by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity.
This is how we can give sense and morality to the commercial rules and show solidarity with the people of the south.
This partial renationalisation of competition policy could involve higher costs for Member States.
In the thirties, when Adolf Hitler was democratically elected, although with a minority, many people thought that it was not as bad as all that and, Mr Poettering, in France, a number of men and women, on the right wing but perhaps of other political persuasions too, thought, 'Better Hitler in France than the Front Populaire.'
These guarantee - making no claim to be exhaustive - a minimum of 3 things.
It is, in fact, something very positive.
Thirdly, we need to carry out checks on these safety and insurance certificates in the ports, that is in every port of the European Union.
Question No 8 by (H-0796/99):
The fact is, whether through weakness or foolishness - nothing to be proud of either way, you will admit - in rushing to give its opinion, Parliament is giving up the only lever which the Treaty accords it, i.e. demanding a complete IGC agenda as a prerequisite before declaring its opinion.
The European Peace and Reconciliation Fund has also been a success in creating jobs in border counties in Ireland.
As a corollary, there will be safeguards for officials who are the subject of false allegations.
The problems in Europe' s urban areas are getting worse; fortunately, we now have consensus with the Commission.
We envisage that the work of the existing five Scientific Committees devoted to food safety will be transferred to the authority.
I am referring to the situation in Austria, where the Commission has remained true to its role, being duty-bound to work towards the cohesion of the Union, but also the unwavering guardian of the Treaties, ready to punish every minor breach of the principles of democracy, law and respect for minorities.
I would like to congratulate you on what is referred to in German parliamentary-speak, inappropriately in your case, as a maiden speech.
The issue is whether the European dimension will become stronger or weaker as a result of being specifically integrated into the Treaties.
We must not allow the critics of European integration to claim, as they presently do with some justification as we have just heard from Mr Bonde, that the increase in EU responsibilities is a one-way street only.
It is of no concern to the major groups in Parliament, nor to the majority of the trade unions, who are busy discussing the defence of European public administration, but, in practice, are occupied with the corporate protection of their own members, putting the wide powers afforded to them to dubious use.
How can we talk of increasing the sphere of competence of the Court of First Instance when we know that we need to increase the number of judges in that Court because it is overstretched?
My question relates to something that will come up on Thursday and which I will then raise again.
Mr President, I welcome much, indeed most, of what has been said in this debate.
In this respect, one of the variants considered is reminiscent of the Dutch polder model, the structurally planned cooperation between government, trade unions and employers' organisations.
I am very indignant about the fact that it is so difficult to get any documents handed over on this matter.
Furthermore, it should be the case that, if the Court of Auditors detects a mistake not just one year but two years running, the management should be held responsible for it, and this will have an effect on chances of promotion.
This Parliament has often heard the desire to reform the Commission expressed, even by its Presidents.
Genuine structural reforms and a competition-friendly taxation policy are the cornerstones of a successful economic base.
But what we need is the analytical resources: these issues require the investment of more intellectual capital.
Let me read what it says in my brief - and as it is in my brief it must be true! "I would like to stress again that the Commission has accepted all the Ombudsman's recommendations contained in his draft recommendations of July 1999".
With all due respect for the principle of competition, competition is not, however, an end in itself.
I consider this to be unacceptable.
Mr President, I think we should firstly express our sorrow for the victims.
We have submitted an amendment to this effect.
I would like to thank Mrs Grossetête and her colleagues for bringing this motion before Parliament.
I would like to tell you that, in fact, it is not just an environmental problem - it is a very important environmental problem - but it is also a very important social problem.
In my view, most definitely not unless such rejection of the scientific arguments were soundly based, rationally argued and fully justified.
Mr President, I was not referring to that particular vote but to votes in general.
We believe the vast number of recommendations of the Wise Men' s report should be implemented.
Answers are still awaited.
We need the depth of spirit that literature provides in the midst of a culture that has a short attention span and is inclined towards the superficial.
We want to see that follow-through to a much greater extent in future.
A ceiling of 700 has been prescribed as the maximum that Parliament can safely become and remain a deliberative assembly.
I want to defend an amendment tabled by my group on the maritime aspect of this Community initiative.
There is an ecological aspect which we should continue to give priority to.
Madam President, I will add to the unanimity of the evening and say that I support the adoption of Culture 2000 and add my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, who took over from our former colleague Nana Mouskouri.
It may even be a way of doing extremism a great deal of good.
Given that the Commission is represented by Vice-President de Palacio, I believe that, before voting, it would help if the Commission could let us know how ready it is to present this programme, as agreed. Alternatively, Parliament is not ready to examine this programme, as some appear to be suggesting.
The key questions now are who pays the EUR 262 per car for the 9 million cars that are disposed of each year?
This report, therefore, appears at a crucial time, on the eve of Mr Kinnock' s reforms.
The European Union must also have the power to act in the event of a government electing to impose a total blockade.
In my opinion, this second hypothesis would imply the failure of Parliament in its duty as a Parliament, as well as introducing an original thesis, an unknown method which consists of making political groups aware, in writing, of a speech concerning the Commission' s programme a week earlier - and not a day earlier, as had been agreed - bearing in mind that the legislative programme will be discussed in February, so we could forego the debate, since on the next day our citizens will hear about it in the press and on the Internet and Parliament will no longer have to worry about it.
Madam President, despite the fundamental democratic principle of the respect for human rights and the freedom and sovereignty of peoples, which opposes fascism, nazism or communism, both new and old, and despite all the previous speakers talking about the sovereignty of the Austrian people, we are today witnessing this sovereignty being denied by Parliament.
That is the debate, and this question must be addressed in any discussion of the Intergovernmental Conference, its agenda or its method.
Is it the case that these countries can boast of what is termed in English 'good governance' ?
So we are now experiencing the same thing that happened 20 years ago with the Amoco Cadiz; a wreck on the North coast, a wreck on the South coast, a wreck on the West coast.
I nevertheless wish to stress the fact that it is quite distressing to see the lack of real interest in this reform.
If you will pardon me for saying so, Mr Kinnock, what you are proposing is a little like abolishing the police because they were unable to prevent crimes.
Mr President, I am very pleased that environmental protection is now a priority for this Parliament, as indeed it is for the citizens of Europe.
On the other hand, the decision to delay the second round of talks, initiated in Shepherdstown by the Syrian Arab Republic, is undoubtedly significant, but I am convinced that the hopes which were raised on 3 January in that town will not be dashed.
Report (A5-0069/1999) by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission White Paper on modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty (COM(1999)0101 - C5-0105/1999 - 1999/2108(COS))
I do not want to minimise these, but progress is being made as far as strand A cooperation with candidate countries is concerned, even if the problems related to the management procedures and to the scale of the projects still remain.
Mr President, I join others in wishing Portugal every good wish for a successful presidency.
We had heard about this regrettable incident.
I agree with previous speakers who have said that the polluter should pay, and this proposal expresses that idea very well.
Mr Florenz also raised the question of anonymity.
I feel therefore that extending and enriching European citizens' participation in culture is a crucial task, one which justifies the efforts we make to achieve it, and this is the yardstick against which we must measure the success of our programme and of our Union.
Mr President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group considers that the agenda for the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, as set by the Helsinki Council, i.e. focussing strictly on the issue of decision making in an enlarged Europe, must be adhered to.
There are other issues that should fruitfully be looked at, especially before such a large widening of the Union to so many new countries.
Mr President, I want to concentrate on the issue of corpus juris.
It is true, there are some European regulations and interpretative statements on the way.
But I am also told that they were informed verbally of this decision by the Committee of Chairmen of Groups last Thursday, so they were fully aware of the decision.
So far, some Balkan countries have received aid from the PHARE and Obnova programmes, while others have not.
I congratulate him on his excellent report.
He has been clear that his commitment has been to produce a radical change.
It is hard to understand why the French and the Europeans allow something which the Americans refuse to accept, and why Europe, normally so quick to pass environmental legislation, has chosen to overlook the matter of maritime safety.
It should be noted that the current regulation on social security systems does not at present refer to the question of early retirement and the Commission has proposed certain amendments to the regulation which are, however, still pending before the Council.
My country' s place is not outside the European Union but in it ...
It seems to me desirable for an authority of this type to be centrally located.
Trees have been uprooted, houses are still being demolished and, above all, water supplies have been reduced or refused, especially in East Jerusalem, while the settlements continue and are growing constantly.
I did not ask what the Council thought of the proposal which the Commission has still not tabled.
Although the European Parliament supports this initiative, our only regret is that we have to approve a resolution on it before we have seen any evaluation of INTERREG II.
This would mean that the process of replacing dangerous substances would be implemented more slowly.
This is why it has been around for years, and it is satisfying that the Commission is being afforded the opportunity this evening to give a response.
For that and for the letter to the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria which you mentioned, we expressly respect, acknowledge and support you.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Brok, for his report.
If the establishment of such an area, in which the Union can also intervene in the basic rights of the citizens, is only decided by diplomats and bureaucrats, while the elected representatives of Europe are reduced to following developments like a rabbit watching a snake, then this area will not gain the acceptance of the citizens.
Do not believe for one moment that your proposed reform of the budget will disguise the limitations of the Community financial system.
We cannot continue to close our eyes to these matters.
Most of the proposed amendments are of a purely technical nature.
Parliament wanted financial inspection and audit functions to be separated.
For us, the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, it is not only the reform of the institutions of the European Union which will be important in the next five years; it is also important that we declare our faith in the single European currency and use the policy of stability as a basis for consolidating the European currency in coming years.
Is this House going to let its agenda be determined by scurrilous reports on a programme which bases its news items on lies, or is it going to get down to serious work and address the challenges facing Europe?
OLAF, the Commission agency set up earlier this year must be placed under the direction of an independent European public prosecutor whose job will be to prepare for prosecution by national criminal courts, criminal offences committed against the financial interests of the Union by Members and officials of the European institutions.
They accept the professional confidentiality of business and banks, even though this same confidentiality serves to conceal what are essentially criminal actions.
They cannot therefore be approved.
I would like to draw your attention to something Mr Goodwill asked, that is to the connections we make between the precautionary principle and the world beyond the European Union.
Subject: Farming and the Portuguese Presidency Will the Council outline the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency for the next six months as regards the common agricultural policy and indicate the steps it feels are necessary to boost consumer confidence in the agricultural sectors and products adversely affected by recent health scares?
As is also explained in the present communication, it is not therefore correct that one must first begin with some sort of cost-benefit analysis.
That is important.
Social Europe, used as a foil by the EU, has simply been eliminated from the agenda.
We must therefore find a political solution.
As a Member of the European Parliament for the constituency of Leinster, I have always supported the need for the implementation of bottom-up schemes supported by national EU funds.
Indeed this disaster involving the Erika, like that of the Russian vessel in Turkey, moreover, is unacceptable and intolerable at a time when the ultimate hi-tech technology is available.
The following objectives were set: improving the development potential of rural areas by calling upon local initiative; promoting the acquisition of knowledge in the rural development sector; disseminating this knowledge to other rural areas.
We want to develop a Community immigration policy which takes account of the Member States' capacity to absorb immigrants and we need to extend the operational powers of EUROPOL, for example, so that specific steps can be taken to combat organised crime.
This is why we think that the applicable legislation must be reviewed, particularly the 1992 protocol which has exempted the shipowners, in this case the oil tanker charterer, from any liability.
We have worked closely with Portuguese NGOs and with some initiatives they have proposed within the framework of the Portuguese Presidency, which we are combining with the wide range of concerns underpinning our whole programme.
It is of the utmost importance to address the issue of those who cannot keep up, one which reminds us of how difficult and complicated it is to establish progress indicators and how inadequate it is to use the parameter of per capita income alone.
I think it is very creditable that you should mention the concept of 'global administration' , as others too have said here.
We might well wonder why 76% of Belgian citizens have no faith in the justice system in their country or why 56% of French citizens have no confidence in their country' s system of justice, and 53% of Italian citizens have absolutely no confidence in Italian justice...
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Secondly, I want to say that we must be consistent in our own behaviour and in our evaluations.
Are you going to interfere with Great Britain' s Parliament if we are elected?
Youth, education and cultural policies are important tools for creating these values, for giving the citizens confidence in the European Union and making it credible in their eyes.
The first relate to the timetable and the content of this initiative.
A second remark made by Mr Gasòliba was that there is currently no evidence that the Tobin tax will stabilise the exchange rates.
Personally I argued in favour of a rather harder line, and I supported Amendments Nos 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8, as well as the oral amendment tabled by the Socialist Group.
We shall pay particular attention to the wording of the Minutes, as we always do, of course.
We should therefore review our policies in order to take account of this fact.
Mr President, all I can say about 1999 is this: how wonderful to feel the Portuguese summer after the Finnish winter.
So the honourable Member's remarks about the strategic importance of these regions are extremely well made.
The Minutes of the sitting on Thursday 3 February have been distributed.
But why do they not buy their own entrance ticket?
Parliament has amended the contractual text.
Mr Prodi said he would act anyway, that he preferred to get things right, but that fear of not getting things right would not prevent him from acting.
If it functions well, if we are satisfied, if the Commission has basically acted correctly, why the need for the modification?
Europe is showing that it has not forgotten Auschwitz; Europe is coming face to face with the suffering of the past.
Mr President, I do not want to be misunderstood - I sincerely hope this does not happen - and I should therefore like to start by saying that I am, of course, in favour of combating fraud and firmly support the appropriate, necessary reforms.
Do please raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference.
For example, to accept new roads is to accept new pollution within the European Union. This goes totally against the policies which we are proposing to fight greenhouse gas emissions, for example.
When it comes to safety my Group will always support any initiatives to improve transport safety.
You will agree, furthermore, that the texts adopted by this House always call for Community jurisdiction, and that includes for the Charter of Fundamental Rights which is currently being drawn up.
Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, somehow or other, today' s agenda has come full circle.
Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
We have noted increasing levels of apprehension and disquiet, even within regions where unemployment is quite low and prosperity very high.
In this field the Commission, in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency and the European Parliament, will give its full support to the Interinstitutional Conference to be held on drugs in February.
In the UK the local index of deprivation is a very good example of a widely used standard and statistic to help determine not only EU but national and regional assistance programmes.
Mr President, Commissioners, first of all, I cannot help but reflect upon the fact that this is, on the whole, a Dutch-British-Scandinavian debate where the speakers are concerned.
There is an irreconcilable contradiction between positions adopted in the name of human rights and the rule of law, but which at the same time attack the fundamental rights of the Austrians and ride roughshod over the basic tenets of the rule of law, in this case the standards laid down in the Treaties.
In this way, Europe would truly belong to the citizens and the Union would acquire an entirely new quality of democratic legitimacy.
Mr President, Commissioner Monti, there is much that is good in Mr Jonckheer' s report on state aid for manufacturing industry and certain other sectors.
They are the first but they are not the only subjects, Mr Seguro, that the conference must deal with.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to highlight the excellent work carried out by Mrs Berger and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market generally, which has incorporated innovative ideas into this directive, which I hope will be approved by the Commission and the Council.
But, as I have already mentioned, our overriding objectives ought still to be those of transparency and openness.
That is why I want to echo the comments from my colleague about the importance of the reform process which has been promised to the people of Europe by Mr Prodi and Mr Kinnock.
I have no objection to examining an amendment making Community law stricter but, as other members have stressed, we need to start with application, because there is already a legal framework at European Union level and we must not lose sight of that fact.
Mrs Lynne, you are quite right and I shall check whether this has actually not been done.
Thirdly, we wish to achieve the recycling objectives specified in the present directive.
It also has a long-term effect on thinking when it comes to the use of these sorts of weapons.
Parliament' s representatives at the Intergovernmental Conference must make it clear to those with whom they will be negotiating that, with the Union' s institutional changes, we are faced with responsibility for the constitutional development of the Union.
The same when the floods came in France and the same again now.
The Commission document expected to be ready in December 1999 was delayed until January, then February, and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism.
Of course, every instance of a deprived urban area is a separate case.
From all accounts, this would only serve to strengthen Haider.
There were a total of 27 cases in 1998 and the Commission submitted its own report on these.
How accurate are the press reports which state that the Portuguese Presidency has already pledged troops as a peacekeeping force in the Golan?
That is why we can only hope - and we should resolve all of this this week - that, in 2001, we will finally have Community regulations for the transport of dangerous goods by road so that we have a degree of legal certainty here and also so that our roads are a good deal safer.
Mr President, the Group of the European People' s Party was not satisfied with the conclusions of the European Council in Helsinki.
It is therefore political by nature.
I find that encouraging and I look forward to further discussions with them and other Members of Parliament in relation to the issues that they raised.
I have a lot of sympathy with that protest.
This requires action to address the underlying causes, including an examination of the electoral process itself.
Do you believe that consumer demand for environmentally friendly cars and more fuel-efficient cars is going to decline in the future?
Fundamental changes will also be considered for the technical assistance offices.
Following the attack in Hadera on Monday, we must repeat our condemnation of any form of terrorism.
Clearly though, it must be monitored, a task which falls to the European Commission.
I have explained the position of the Commission.
The most remote regions, still hard hit by catastrophic unemployment rates, offer one example of this.
Are reducing the disparities between levels of development and the consequent promotion of real convergence objectives that we have already achieved?
The activities of the ALTENER programme will promote renewable energy sources and I believe that such programmes merit financial support at the developmental stage as they offer enormous commercial potential in the future.
Let me repeat what I have said, we shall be most attentive to the inclusion of urban issues in all structural fund programming.
Since there has been great involvement and concern about how technical assistance is to be provided, we must say that external offices will be used.
We must all ensure that it is not always the same person, i.e. the vehicle owner, who pays.
These costs are not very high.
My second brief comment is to thank the Portuguese Presidency, particularly Mr Seixas da Costa, for his proactive approach.
This is what persuades us to vote in favour of it.
An individual is required to be in authorised employment and to have the right of residence and insurance protection, not just at the time of issue of the card but throughout its period of validity and for three months thereafter.
I understand the Commission' s own concern that distance may prove detrimental to effective cooperation.
Mr President, I would like to welcome the President-in-Office and his colleague from the Justice Ministry, Mr Costa, and to thank them for the welcome they gave my committee in Lisbon last week and the constructive meetings we enjoyed.
They are supported by appropriate European Union structural fund activities.
Adjournment of the session
I would like to say that the work carried out during this time by Parliament has been of a high quality, and I therefore congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Langen and also all the various speakers who have spoken both in committee and here in plenary.
This is a classic example of how the partnership concept operates and such schemes must be supported in its broadest remit.
The Tibet Intergroup is very concerned about the worsening situation in Tibet and it is clear that the current policy of the European Union has proved inadequate to address the grave human rights abuses faced by Tibetans daily in Tibet.
It has nothing to do with any disputes on the substance; it is just about the following question: when will the Commission - having already had a year and a half to do this - finally be in a position to table the directive?
We would understand completely if you were not able to say anything else given the irresponsible attitude not only of the Commission, but also of this Parliament, and if you cannot do anything because there is no legal or financial framework for doing so.
At a hospice for AIDS patients, I met two Irish Catholic nuns who were caring for dying AIDS patients.
Is this really how we will answer the fundamental questions which are not so much about 'who does what' but more 'what are we doing together' ?
We revealed the hollowness of the republicans who were nationalistic, xenophobic and anti-minority.
In future, we would like to see greater ambition applied to the subject of the outermost regions such as, in my country, the islands of the Azores and Madeira.
Competition policy has to be seen as part of the whole of the economy and it must be assessed with reference to trade policy and non-material rights: we should not just be emphasising its social dimension.
We would like to make two recommendations arising from the establishment of OLAF and which should safeguard its operational and legal efficiency, transparency, and the protection of the rights of individuals.
Everyone understands, Mrs Schroedter, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons and the time limits involved - and I shall come back to this point presently - and whatever the time limits or delays, since we are discussing this report right now, as the representative for the Commission, I consider that the report has been issued at an opportune moment with regard to the guidelines for 2000-2006 as it is now that we are starting the new regional programming.
Question No 28 by (H-0781/99):
So if we want to look into what causes exchange rate instability, then we need to take into account the elements of good governance and focus on these first.
Obstinate as I am, I also want to say that the regulations governing public access to official records must be clearly better than the draft which has been circulating on the Internet. Otherwise, we shall not get anywhere in this fight.
However, we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present.
I would like to point out that, within this broad consensus, there were some Groups which said that the majority of Parliament should form an opposition to the majority of the Council.
The last area I want to mention is convergence of civil and criminal justice systems.
Therefore we want applications for the service provision card to be for one or more Member States.
However, there must be an appropriate level of supervision on the political side.
What we really need to focus on, however, is making the checks more effective.
It is therefore not out of the question that these issues, which crop up again and again, and which are passed from one conference to another, may be addressed.
Even today, we do not have definite answers regarding the monitoring of the nuclear power stations in the eastern republics.
I believe that this is actually a good thing.
There is a problem, however, which we need to address together.
We all have, as it were, our histories to live with, but it is important that business has legal certainty.
I am disappointed in the EPP.
You yourself, Mr President, spoke of a model of which, unfortunately, there is little mention in the document. You said that we must offer our citizens a model of economic, social, cultural and ecological development, both internally and towards the outside world, which differs from other models, including the US model.
And, because there are a number of you who have just pointed out what appeared to you to be an omission, let me also add the regional economies of the European regions handicapped by their distance from the centre, be they remote regions, island regions or, of course, the most remote regions which are, naturally, the most distant.
Such vehicles are not covered by the definition of waste and are not therefore included under the directive.
It is not firm commitments that we need, just plain commitments would suffice, and we need to know what has actually been paid and, more especially, what has not been paid.
It is also important to set percentages and a date for vehicles to be composed of recyclable materials.
Mr von Wogau said we can look to the European Court.
Madam President, we are debating an extremely serious issue.
In reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea, but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future.
For this reason we need the coordination of all policy areas capable of impacting positively on rural development.
The most important task of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States.
But, of course, both the competition report and the aid report share common ground in this White Paper.
Moreover, due to the immense economic and social interests involved, we cannot afford to wait for a judgement to be pronounced two years after the event, as is now quite normal.
As regards the other aspect of Agenda, the aspect of cohesion and regional development, there we do indeed have great achievements to point to, but there are still less developed regions, particularly island regions, to which more attention should be paid.
According to the International Transport Federation, over 40% of the ships wrecked in 1998 were sailing under flags of convenience, the symbol of profit and the exploitation of human beings at the expense of safety.
Even a small tax would have serious repercussions on the capital markets, because this sort of speculation tax would reduce the profitability of investments considerably.
It lives up to the expectations the citizens have of us.
And once again I should like to point out in this House, in view of my own experience prior to Amsterdam, that whatever the ambiguity or weakness of the status acknowledged to the two representatives of the European Parliament, prior to Amsterdam, the quality of what Mrs Guigou and Mr Brok said counted for a lot in these negotiations.
It is now February and we are still waiting.
As I have said, we are not opposed to such a study.
Mr President, Commissioner, Director-General, I would particularly like to emphasise the following in relation to the von Wogau report: I welcome the Commission' s open-minded endeavours to initiate debate on the hitherto strict procedural rules, and to propose practical reform measures.
With regard to the parliamentary procedure, I would like once again to thank all of those who have acted and spoken, especially the rapporteur, because the majority of Parliament' s amendments have been incorporated into the proposal accepted by the Council, in this case practically all of them, although with some modifications. I would also like to express my gratitude because an improvement on the initial offer of funds has been achieved.
We therefore ask the Commission to pay special attention to the issue of maritime and island cooperation when zone planning next comes up for review.
In my view, that is the most important issue this Intergovernmental Conference has to concentrate its energies on.
The next item is the joint debate on the Commission statements on its strategic objectives for the coming five years and the annual legislative programme for 2000.
Honourable Members will know that one particular concern of ours has been that there should be a resumption of progress on the multilateral track.
Following a request to this effect, which I have received from a number of political groups, and following the meeting of the Conference of Presidents which has just been held, I propose that we add to the agenda a one and a half hour debate on a topical and urgent subject of major importance, pursuant to Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure, on the subject of the European Union' s reaction with regard to the talks in Austria on forming a government.
The Commission is sending out the wrong signals here, by renaming the Directorate-General for Financial Control as the Directorate-General for Audits, for example.
We will try to move these strategies forward as much as possible during our presidency.
The forthcoming Lisbon Summit on these issues - dissemination of technology, employment - will be a decisive summit.
It will be just one of several instruments and hopefully you will be on our side in this.
On the other hand, it would be so difficult to bring the scheme into force everywhere in the world at precisely the same time - and personally speaking, I do not believe we can achieve this - that the Tobin tax dream might as well be buried.
This relates in particular to the intended agenda, particularly as regards the Amsterdam leftovers, which suggests that unacceptable inner cabinets will be created in the future. This also identifies areas relating to the second and third pillars, which tend to be reflected in an undesirable militarisation of the European Union.
That is another point, i.e. the question of obligation, which you were somewhat unclear on in your White Paper.
The strict basic conditions attached to the issue of the EU service provision card - and I am with Mr Wieland on this - are essential, for they will serve to prevent abuses such as illegal entry and bogus contracts.
And those that do pursue such a policy must invest in expansion for the most part and, to a lesser extent, in rationalisation.
The argument that Mr Poettering himself used has come into play, i.e. that it would only be possible to deprive Haider of his mystique if he were to be integrated into the political system.
Coming from the border counties in the north-west of Ireland, I have seen over the years the important role which INTERREG I and II have played and I am delighted to welcome INTERREG III.
This means that this proposal' s fundamental aim is not to resolve the problem of the restricted movement of these workers, but merely to improve the position of the companies providing services.
Amendment No 4 is of a similar nature.
Belgians can deliver their cars back to the vendor without any cost.
We have not done that yet but it will be done in September.
What is now needed is action.
So who will pay for the vehicles which are to be disposed of?
That is why the European Union must make its position clear regarding the current situation in Austria.
Is this too much of a burden?
Unfortunately, this did not happen. Mr Bernié is not to blame for this as it was a matter for the previous committee.
Finally, we ask that the Commission ensures that Structural Fund monies are spent in a way which is transparent.
The World Wide Web, which has enabled the meteoric development of the information society, was developed by CERN in Geneva, once again with public aid.
The debates we are having these days, on a certain European country' s government, for example, show, do they not, that we must place the spiritual, moral, constitutional, community and common welfare-orientated leanings of the European Union on a firm footing, and that legally binding fundamental rights must also be incorporated into the Treaty for the same reason, as this will be a crucial stabilising factor.
Finally, I want to say that, when my country provides environmental aid to shipowners who wish to improve the quality of the environment, there are units within the Commission who regard this as prohibited aid to shipyards.
Madam President, all that I wanted to say has been covered by those fellow Members who spoke before me and I think there is unanimity among the groups in the European Parliament and among those of us on the Committee on Culture.
Take, for example, the car manufacturing sector, where subsidies and state aid of various sorts have increased by 24% during the reference period.
As a follow-up to the Tampere and Helsinki conclusions, the Commission will be presenting its contribution to the preparation of a European Union strategy to combat organised crime.
Its function will have to be set out in detail in the proposal I will bring to the Commission in September.
I would like to mention one final point.
This Chamber was not made for goods, it was not made for money.
The mismanagement and examples of fraud which occur ought not to lead to our ending up in an old-fashioned hierarchical bureaucracy which, through an exaggerated supervision of detail, prevents the development of a modern administration.
A further amendment allows the Member States to impose more stringent requirements, in particular for vacuum tanks, if work is done or goods are transported as a priority in temperatures well below -20ºC. This is in the special interest of northern European regions.
Another is clearly for national parliaments and national political parties to find a reinforced role that they can play inside European Union affairs and to share the shouldering of responsibility to build European parliamentary democracy.
We nonetheless very much agree with our colleagues that there is a need for transparency in connection with the Intergovernmental Conference so that people are clear as to how the work is proceeding.
We have expected the citizens to take on board the transition from EEC to EC to EU.
It should prevent exclusion from being part of everyday life.
So there is doubt as to whether these pledges of the Commission contain enough substance at this crucial time when decisions need to be made.
Therefore, since the qualified majority will be extended, there will also be more codecision with Parliament.
The Commission and the Committee of Independent Experts are in favour of completely doing away with ex ante financial control.
Here, in addition to the work being done in the group of experts on the Pre-Accession Pact, it is important that it has proved possible to draw up a joint action plan for the fight against organised crime between the European Union and the Russian Federation, a plan which is now being finalised, and to organise meetings of liaison officials from the Member States, in Moscow, and to develop a set of further initiatives.
Experience shows that projects of cooperation need better planning and closer monitoring and need to be generally more successful.
The Member States do not always have sufficient means at their disposal to address this deprivation adequately.
A single key is to suffice in future.
Madam President, I would firstly like to compliment you on the fact that you have kept your word and that, during this first part-session of the new year, the number of television channels in our offices has indeed increased considerably.
For example, in my own region, in Manchester, the URBAN Community initiative has been a tremendous success.
As soon as the opinion is adopted here in Parliament, the guidelines for LEADER+ will again be presented to the STAR Committee so that the Member States can confirm the provisional agreement which they gave on 14 November.
We have already spoken to the Council so that it might include a Commission statement in its decision, establishing this element of conditionality.
I completely understand your concerns, and I feel that there is a need for effort and a certain degree of consistency within the European Union itself on this issue.
In six months' time, it may be appropriate to carry out an analysis of the outcome and also to look more closely at the new situation' s effects upon the Commission' s role.
I would like to suggest to the Commission that it prescribe a deadline by which the reforms have to be carried out.
Cultural cooperation - and this was also mentioned earlier - truly creates identity, far more so than any transport directive, however important it might be.
The Commission's DGs must be made fully responsible for their own expenditure, including financial control.
Subject: Construction of nuclear plant in earthquake-prone Turkey The two recent earthquakes in Turkey registering more than 7 on the Richter scale raise tremendous doubts about Turkey's persistence with the construction of costly nuclear reactors at Akkuyu, while energy reserves produced by the Atatürk dams are exported to third countries and the EU spends a slice of its budget on repairing the damage wrought by the earthquakes.
In addition to that, there is the question of duty-free.
Yet is this really how we will reconcile the people and European construction?
It has led to a growth in mergers, acquisitions and company restructuring and to gigantic sums being raised with increasing frequency on the financial markets.
Mr Kinnock has also devoted some fine-sounding phrases to this subject but, at the same time, it is entirely unclear, at this moment when we have to make a decision, what, for example, happens with whistle-blowers who want to get something off their chest and cannot do this internally but who want to address the outside world - the press or Parliament.
Neither outcome would be satisfactory.
Europe was born out of a desire for peace, freedom and tolerance.
Because disabled people do not form one homogenous group - for example many deaf people see themselves as a linguistic minority denied respect for their own language and culture - it is necessary as stated in paragraph 9 to enable some partnerships to be defined which are specific to a particular disability or other group.
What the stricken populations are waiting for now, those who have lost everything, particularly among those who made their living from the sea and from tourism, those people whose businesses have been compromised for several years to come, is not for the polluters to repair the damage they have caused, but for the gears to now be set in motion to ensure that their present misfortune serves to prevent similar crimes affecting other people in future.
Madam President, off the subject of aeroplane delays, I wish to apologise for the absence yesterday of my colleague in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Caroline Lucas, who is a British Member.
This is the best support we can give to European democracy.
At a time when, Commissioner, after Seattle, we Europeans are fighting on the grounds of multifunctionality in rural development projects, why should we confine ourselves to a few limited criteria with resources that are far from sufficient?
Fourthly, increasing audiences for culture, with particular emphasis on attracting young people to culture and, fifthly, protecting the common cultural heritage on the European scale as well as the history of the peoples of Europe, and making them better known.
A disaster of this scale could almost certainly not have occurred along the American coastline, and why?
This discrimination is much more serious for islands that have a regional status that can only be linked to areas of an exclusively maritime nature.
But there was some misunderstanding, for they did receive a letter from somebody else that they felt gave them permission.
My colleague Jan-Kees Wiebenga, will undoubtedly take this point further because he has already published a report on the same subject matter.
Faced with these social challenges, the effectiveness of the Structural Funds is still in doubt.
I have already talked about the economy: we well know which basic ingredients will set Europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs.
I am very anxious that we should strengthen our relationship with them.
The result is 30% growth, so we are not completely dissatisfied with the result.
We are now seeing the beginning of a strong recovery, which it appears may even be sustainable for a good while yet if we are prudent with our policies.
The head of the government of one of the nine provinces belongs to this party and it is involved in all the other provincial governments.
Of all priorities, this one is the most pressing.
Madam President, I shall speak against this proposal on the grounds of a principle which I consider absolutely vital with regard to observance of the Treaties, and with particular regard to Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The intention of Florenz and Lange in their amendments is obvious: to sabotage the directive!
When six European countries have granted the right to vote, the President of this House can venture to extend this right to vote, and eligibility to participate in the municipal and European elections, to all people from outside the Community who have lived in Europe for more than five years.
The issue here is whether a European manufacturer should pay EUR 250 million or a Korean manufacturer, say, EUR 2 million.
Finally, we have to put our trust in, and support, the institutions which are closest to the citizens, that is, the local councils and bodies.
I mentioned this again to Commissioner Monti recently.
All the foreign troops, including therefore the Syrian forces, must withdraw from Lebanon in accordance with Resolution 520 of the United Nations Security Council.
- (SV) In order to be able to influence developments, the European Parliament must adopt a more constructive attitude towards the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference than emerges from the present resolution, which displays far too much disappointment and negativity about the decision which the European Council made in Helsinki in December 1999.
All the same, a Europe with 25 members will be wanting a European tax on income, if not on profits, or the tax on CO2 to finance the budget for 2025.
Will we give our backing to forward-looking environmental and consumer protection or, as the amendments of Florenz, Lange and others cause me to fear, will we allow ourselves to become a servant of the German car industry?
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are pleased with the agreement which has been found, and their thanks go to all those who negotiated so well in favour of an amendment which the Greens were almost the authors of.
Natural habitats were destroyed.
It is only because there are people in need that we are prepared to overlook this.
Does the Commission think that there will be never be any revision?
You will be familiar with some reputable companies, our French fellow MEPs will be familiar with some reputable companies, but we must look carefully at exactly which companies do not fulfil requirements, and these must be struck off the list.
But here I would like to call on my experience as a lawyer.
I believe that this is a serious issue which we are obliged to follow up, but it should not be dealt with by means of urgent procedure.
I therefore understand why we are meeting at this time, which is usually set aside for other activities and not for debates, discussions and the exchange of information.
In this sense, I share Commissioner Patten' s positive attitude.
The trade in emissions rights is immoral to my mind and rather than solving the problem, it shelves it.
The environmental disaster of the sinking of the Erika off Brittany and the spillage of 10 000 tonnes of oil has been widely reported in the British media.
In the coming weeks, I shall be making a tour of capitals to sound out the opinions of the various ministers for justice and home affairs.
It is for reasons of constitutionality that the President-in-Office of the Council ought not to have made the statement he did, and in a manner that goes against the Treaty.
So I sympathise very much with what the honourable Member has said.
It was not able to do very much but it was repeatedly abused by Members of this House proposing action when the disasters were not even major.
Not only should the Commission discuss this, but also our states, our parliaments and our civil society.
In the end tax would politicise the global, undemocratic system of financial power.
My group is fully intent on helping with this work.
Not only is this coordination essential but, as we stated in our opinion, exchanges and the dissemination of expertise and good practice must also be essential.
We are asking workers to be flexible, innovative and ever more productive, yet the fruits of this productivity increasingly benefit the shareholders alone.
We here in Parliament are waiting for the Commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible.
Indeed, for some 'forestry' districts, which have lost 20% of their trees, this represents a huge loss.
President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Ahern, Mrs Roth-Behrendt and Mrs Jackson for their words of support in relation to the White Paper.
This project is not so much a project of the institutions as a project of the citizens of our common Union.
For this reason, one of the most important and essential objectives which we should set in the European Union is to make efforts to create new jobs in rural areas, outside of the agricultural sector, in sectors such as rural tourism, sport, culture, heritage conservation, the conversion of businesses, new technologies, services, etc.
We have been awaiting a common communication from the Commission on the precautionary principle for a very long time now and it was anything but clear in the past as to whether the Commission speaks with one voice.
We feel that these issues result from the IGC' s appropriateness and its objectives, as well as from the matters which will inevitably be discussed there.
We are therefore right to demand improved controls, sanctions and preventive measures.
This is partly the work of human hand, as difficult as it is to demonstrate climate change using calculations.
I have no objection to the idea of submitting a planning supplement jointly with the main programme.
If we can inject a spirit of entrepreneurial activity into our poor and structurally weak regions we will eventually get them back onto the road of attracting substantial investor confidence, which will be the key to future success.
For that we need a form of energy production that does not harm the climate: nuclear energy.
We are setting the Commission a massive task, not least in the drawing up of the scoreboard.
I want to know whether this also applies in the document which the Commission has presented now.
It will no longer simply be a case of submitting papers and having them approved; for one thing, each person will have to take responsibility themselves, and that is probably why there is unease about this in other quarters.
On the other hand, we have to see to it that none of the achievements or aims of integration that have been stated thus far are watered down.
Most of the technical issues have been resolved.
I thank the Commissioner and support him very much in his European protection force.
How do you intend to make our people understand that, today like always, immigration is a source of social and cultural wealth with a role which is, and will remain, essential in the context of population?
If we fail to complete it, citizens in less favoured regions will dread enlargement.
I shall point out that a directive on the approximation of Member State legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by road came into force on 1 January 1997.
1997 discharge
Like everybody in this House, I want freedom, justice and security. I do not want to see these degenerate into over-centralisation, chaos and confusion.
That is in itself also about avoiding being unduly restrictive towards the stranger simply because he or she is a stranger.
I have clearly received your series of messages on this subject and I believe that Mrs Banotti has an answer for you.
Any interference by the European institutions in this country is therefore unacceptable; it is in violation of the European Treaty (Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam).
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December 1999, and I would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period.
I agree with the rapporteur on two issues.
.
Why, in these circumstances, is the liability of Total as charterer not recognised?
We must, of course, always ensure that we use our resources in the most effective manner and in such a way that they provide the broadest possible help.
Europe, Japan and the US - the euro, the yen and the dollar, would constitute, in my opinion, such a block.
This programme was designed to encourage cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation and to promote balanced development of the Community territory in order to enhance economic and social cohesion in the Union.
I would ask him to be brief.
It is absolutely certain that all three left us with an ecological disaster.
It is, of course, a peace process which is finally under way.
We believe it is necessary to coordinate the development objectives and management mechanisms of actions 2 and 3, financed by LEADER, with those of other actions financed by other Community programmes relating to interregional and international cooperation and partnership, such as INTERREG, SAPAR, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA, in the same areas.
We have to work out what we are going to do with the millions of vehicles we abandon each year.
I would like to make two observations during this intervention, which stem from the report itself, given this Parliament' s obligation, in accordance with the Treaty, to produce a very succinct report, which does not go into depth.
We must develop greater certainty in the science that underpins food safety in the European Union.
The Austrian Freedom Party leader, Mr Haider, has repeatedly repudiated these values.
I also hope that the same is done in relation to parliamentary control.
Perhaps these issues should be approached with greater attention and a greater esprit de finesse.
My colleagues' register of interests is complete.
The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading (A5-0006/2000), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of the European Parliament and Council Directive on end-of-life vehicles [8095/1/1999 - C5-0180/1999 - 1997/0194(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mr Florenz)
The reason for this is that people are under the impression that once the steel aid code expires, they will be able to do their own thing again without the inconvenience of the European Commission' s supervision.
It is equally important not to lose sight of the Iraq question, which no one discusses anymore, thereby relegating the problems of millions of women, elderly people and children, the victims of an embargo as arrogant as it is wicked, to oblivion.
For instance, the Financial Controller granted a positive a priori visa in most of the cases of mismanagement or irregularities recently uncovered.
The major part of European Union aid has been provided under the TACIS programme.
Bearing this in mind, this House should, in any event, demand that, before the Community support frameworks for the period in question are approved, they be studied and submitted for debate in this Parliament, specifically in light of the guidelines that we have presented today.
But there is one word that I have not heard you mention here tonight.
Mr President, I would like to use the few seconds of speaking time to which I am entitled to point out, or remind, the representative of the Commission that, in Belgium, the government is currently pursuing a policy under which thousands and possibly tens of thousands of illegal aliens are being legalised and are to receive permanent right of residence, right to be reunited with their families, etc.
I will say one thing. For many years I was a traitor to my country; at least that was General Franco' s view.
The second report of the Wise Men arrived in September.
However, as it lacks the legal instruments to support this political will, since the sanctions stipulated under Article 7 of the Treaties are virtually impossible to apply, will it be able to keep its head high in the face of the threat of the systematic blocking of its entire institutional structure?
They all made a vital constructive and balanced contribution.
At that time, she was talking about the desire for a reversed burden of proof.
Does "the European integration model as a rich source for global administration" imply the export of a large-scale perspective and concentration of power?
How can we ensure that we will not be laying ourselves open to attack at any time, for example by our partners in the USA, on account of the bio safety protocol not being adequate to their purposes?
Therefore, in my capacity as president of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and, of course, as an MEP, I hope that a large majority of this House will support this report and that it will be well implemented by the Commission.
The second is that the translation services of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice should be separated.
I would also point out that our coordinator on the Budgetary Control Committee is Mr Pomés Ruiz, who is Spanish and has hence made a major contribution to this debate from a Spanish perspective.
If the Member States decide, in agreement with ourselves, that 25% of ships are to be monitored on the basis of port state control, then they must also make the necessary personnel available.
It is essential that we get the mix right.
Whatever Jörg Haider' s verbal excesses, which we of course deplore, the Austrians have made a democratic choice, and we must respect this.
I have even submitted four amendments on behalf of my group that largely relate to the correct way of quoting Council decisions.
Today, we have arrived at the end of a long road.
And this is not pure chance.
The Austrian elections were held in a free, proper and democratic manner.
Subject: Measures to combat the continuing ethnic cleansing of Serbs and Romanies in Kosovo On 2 December 1999, NATO's Defence Ministers made a strong appeal for an end to the ethnic cleansing of Kosovo's minority communities.
But, Commissioner, none of this is to become less complicated in future - one only has to think of the challenges posed by the enlargement of the Union, the deepening of the internal market, technological progress, globalisation.
In the important debate on competition this morning, I expressed my views on Mr Langen' s report on the implementation in 1998 of the sixth Steel Aid Code.
Let me give you three examples.
I say that as an entrepreneur who has a vested interest in this.
I would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a Dutch channel as well.
Nevertheless, I cannot forget the numerous criticisms, both from Member States and from market operators, which, given the broad margin for manoeuvre and discretion enjoyed by the Commission in its evaluation of specific cases, maintain that they suffer from legal insecurity in the absence of clear rules allowing interested parties to anticipate the position of the authorities and thereby make feasible requests for aid aimed at the promotion of economic activity and employment, the planning of company mergers etc.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have talked a lot about the future, about what the Commission will do, and what the Presidency will do in Lisbon, etc.
Mr President, Mr van Hulten, your work is worthy of being qualified as enterprising, arduous and complex, and I believe this is important in a first report.
What does it mean and what does Europe give us over and above the parameters of our national boundaries?
This Intergovernmental Conference will, at the outset, concentrate on improving the way the institutions operate, particularly taking account of the desire we all share for them specifically to become more democratic, more transparent and more efficient.
This means that it is the manufacturer which should take full responsibility, financial as well as otherwise, for recycling vehicles.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group, on the other hand, wishes to see a polycentric Europe with nations linked in a network.
They are particularly beneficial to the Member States, and I would particularly like to draw your attention to the emphasis the Commission has placed on the issues of sustainable development, job creation and, more particularly, on equal opportunities and transport issues.
I should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the Commission should tackle this question.
The Union is not only an economic community but also a community of values, something which we take seriously. Something has happened.
We know that we can change this situation, in which women are underrepresented in the science sector, only by means of a policy of educational guidance which will systematically encourage a greater range of career choices for girls and, when they have obtained their degrees, by means of positive measures at the professional level.
Our citizens cannot understand that we are deregulating air traffic, but leaving 15 different sectors in the skies which are under national control, which have an adverse economic impact on the airlines and which pollute the environment.
For no one is very keen to spend money on culture.
In conclusion, while key infrastructure projects have been supported by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, we should remember that the European Social Fund has played a very important role in helping the less well-off in our society.
A programme such as INTERREG is there precisely to support regional development projects across national borders, projects which make it possible to build centres of economic growth at European level which will be able to take up the challenge from our competitors on a global scale.
The common position includes practically all of the amendments accepted by the Commission and harmonises the minimum examination requirements for safety advisers and, at second reading, we can accept the amendment on the proposed date, which is much more realistic than the one originally suggested by the Commission, bearing in mind that we have now spent several years debating this question.
. (DA) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted against the report on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
This is all I am talking about here, just that.
LEADER+ should supplement already existing programmes, avoid overlaps and duplication of financing and thus contribute to a process of development which is as comprehensive as possible.
Representatives of the Council, within the next month we are going to table a motion for a resolution in this Parliament.
It is evident from the packaging directive in which this 50/50 compromise is included that this does not work.
However, it has now achieved notoriety.
I consider this to be very encouraging news.
It is obvious that some presidents do not look at the hands, so to speak, but go straight to the electronic voting system.
The position that has now been adopted aims to create more rapid ways of applying competition policy, moving towards applying Community law in national courts rather than at the European Court of Justice, and even aims at having specialised courts.
The objective is to provide a framework and tool to support and enhance economic regeneration, to get the most effective use of resources in the widest partnership and to put these regions back on the road to recovery and sustainable development so that eventually they come off the regional life-support machine.
But, equally, we will not hesitate to withdraw our support financially or otherwise should steps be taken which do not correspond to the openness promised by Commission President Romano Prodi prior to his nomination.
.
I am glad that LEADER+ is to remain true to this underlying concept.
We agree that they ought to be indicative in nature, allowing the maximum flexibility to ensure that we target specific programmes.
Involve us please in your discussions on both policy and process.
(The President declared the common position approved as amended)
The people of Europe have a right to expect their representatives to keep the public interest separate from private profit, but they can only be sure that this is being done in all cases if the information is both publicly available and easily accessible.
The political will of this Parliament is required - and I can see that I can count on this - as well as that of the Council of Ministers.
Although action plans established by the high-level working group aim to limit migratory flows in the future, these plans do nothing to improve human rights, civil liberties and the economic situation in the countries concerned.
There is a reference to applicant states and that is something that we have in mind.
Regarding immigration and asylum, the Commission intends to present proposals for creating a Community instrument on the temporary protection of refugees; to initiate an analysis of criteria and conditions for improving implementation of the Dublin Convention and consideration of a possible change in its legal basis, in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam; to continue the debate on the basis of the communication already published concerning standards for a common asylum process throughout the Union; and to present proposals with a view to preparing legislation on the granting of residence permits to victims of trafficking in human beings who cooperate with judicial action against networks of traffickers.
Who will take the decision, who are the decision-makers?
The Commission must track down the illegal aid and the aid which actually hinders the internal market.
Repeating my thanks to each and every one of you, and also particularly to Arlene McCarthy and Francis Decourrière, I should like to point out that these two initiatives lie within a financial framework with which you are familiar: only EUR 700 million for URBAN, but this is better than nothing; EUR 4 billion 800 millions for INTERREG.
Secondly, there will obviously be timetables for the initiatives within which systematic monitoring will also have to be implemented.
However, it is important, at least in Finland, as a sustainably used, slowly renewable energy source.
I understand and welcome that and I hope that the recommendations will be adhered to.
Well, we are coming to an end of the zoning phase.
I regard that as a very unsatisfactory state of affairs.
This programme, together with the SAVE II programme, integrating the environmental aspect into energy policy, establishes a foundation for a real Community strategy to achieve clean energy while reducing our dependence.
Must there be an IGC?
You have not integrated environmental policy into enlargement, despite the fact that it will be one of the fundamental problems of enlargement.
The rigid and unsuccessful monetarism of the Stability Pact must be re-examined and discarded so that we might have a uniform policy which has prosperity as its primary objective.
I thank them for their statements to the House.
Finally, if you consider the overall amount, which is on the small side, - EUR 2.8 billion for 15 Member States - and how ambitious the objectives are, I am afraid that all we shall succeed in doing is to prove that unemployment is a bad thing.
Subsidies are not enough to ensure development when infrastructure and public services are lacking.
We will be vigilant over the next five years to ensure the reforms now being suggested are fully implemented and will support efforts made to modernise institutions.
However, I would still like to ask when this code will finally come into force, bearing in mind that it has been on the agenda since 1997.
We also need to criticise the Commission' s practice of approving multiple aid packages for steel enterprises which in their view, do not fall within the categories of the code, even given the fact that the European Court of Justice approved this unequal treatment where certain individual decisions were concerned.
There is so much legislation - and I very much welcome the Portuguese programme that was outlined to us last week - but we need to be absolutely sure that it is scrutinised, that the people in this Parliament and the members of the national parliaments and the citizens of Europe are aware of everything involved in it.
I shall, however, mention the Spanish Socialist Party which has just formed an alliance with the butchers of Albacete and which settled its accounts with Basque nationalists by hiring contract killers.
Rural areas must truly be seen as a resource which should be increasingly invested in, by encouraging young people to remain in rural areas in order to prevent their economic and social disintegration.
This peace process in the Middle East is one of the priorities of the European Union' s common foreign and security policy.
It is precisely this phenomenon of solidarity which lies behind the European social model, which we are all in favour of, and which gave rise to the idea of economic and social cohesion.
This means prioritising sex equality, the adaptation of the social model and, above all, an unequivocal fight against populism whenever our economic and social cohesion is under threat.
According to the group of the Greens, this gives the car industry ample time to make the necessary preparations.
It should not be the case that one Member State, under the pretext of calling on the subsidiarity principle, can decide that all funding should go to one group.
It is perhaps not by chance that the Conservative benches have emptied because that which is represented as market freedom no longer has anything in common with the noble principles of the social market economy which has brought so much prosperity to us here in western Europe over recent decades.
It suggests that the Community directive on European Works Councils must be updated and strengthened.
Report (A5-0018/2000) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference (14094/1999 - C5-0341/1999 - 1999/0825(CNS))
For safety' s sake, I should like to have confirmation that it really is the case that, where the Commission and good administration are concerned, there is no part of Jacob Söderman' s proposal which the Commission thinks is unacceptable.
Commissioner, the ignorance of certain Member States has landed us in a major food crisis here in Europe, and I am afraid that once more I have cause to be angry at the fact that again no Members of the Council are in attendance, and that on the day that you present your interesting report.
To give a non-contentious example, no commercial exhibitions can be held here in Parliament for obvious reasons.
And, I say to Madame Reding, thank you for the support and the help you have given so far, keep up the good work, we are on your side.
We have been discussing the Tobin tax proposal for twenty years and yet the question is still topical because we need really concrete and honest answers based on careful studies.
If, among other things, as the programme of the Portuguese Presidency stresses as well, the Commission could promote a new phase of social dialogue, focusing on an agreed strategy of socialisation and diffusion of knowledge, in other words, a strategy for employability and the definition of its rules, this would allow us to take a step towards having employees participate in the informed and consensual management of the restructuring and reemployment processes.
After all, we are all aware how difficult it was within the Council to bring this common position about, and that it was a very difficult balancing act to reach this common position.
- (SV) We have voted in favour of the common resolution in order to express our solidarity with all those who are exposed to xenophobia and racism.
Securing this is a major priority.
Projects implemented with support from the Union have had their effect watered down all too often by slow decision making and complicated administrative processes.
In relation to this, you are no doubt also aware how difficult it is nowadays to preserve natural species as well as natural spaces.
Should flexibility of this kind result in there being inadequate rules in some countries then we should work towards greater harmonisation.
It is only fair and right for them to be able to access EQUAL in the same way as everyone else.
Finally, with the emergence, the resurgence, of the xenophobic Right within the European Union I hope that our institutions together will do their utmost to give reality to Article 6 by using Article 13 to combat discrimination, and Article 137 to combat exclusion.
Madam President, I too have found parts of the debate quite bizarre.
We must reduce protective tariffs in order to safeguard effective capacity utilisation in undertakings in the processing industry.
No one really knows what these elections are to lead to and what kind of parliament is to be formed as a result.
Mr Prodi, you set great store in your reform efforts on introducing a forward-looking employment policy throughout Europe.
As regards rural development, which a number of you brought up, particularly Mrs Redondo Jiménez, the guidelines are in line with the twofold objective mentioned by your rapporteur: a strong agricultural sector linked with increased competitiveness in rural areas, but also protection of the environment and Europe' s rural heritage.
We all know that, in 1995, it was agreed that the Union' s financial interests should be given better protection under criminal law.
It is clear that, for once, the United States has not been able to secure progress on the restarting of these negotiations, and it is true that the obstacles are difficult to overcome: the Syrians wish to regain sovereignty and jurisdiction over the Golan Heights and re-establish the borders which existed before 4 June 1967, while the Israelis wish, since they consider that it suits their situation better, to have the borders which were set in 1923.
However, I should like to point out that it is precisely here that this is fatal. It is precisely where employment policy is concerned that we should work towards measures which are as simplified as possible so that the social dimension of the EU is once again given the importance which it deserves.
One can only hope that it succeeds.
All this would be established by two regulations, one for the Public Prosecutor and another for the criminal code. The regulations would be adopted pursuant to Article 280 of the Treaty, i.e. based on secondary law, whose characteristic feature is that it makes any sort of secondary shift of emphasis possible.
Israelis and Palestinians have made substantial progress in implementing the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum.
This is what the Commission will be judged on.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, you have come here today, Mr Prodi, in a very reformist and ambitious mood.
Since no one wishes to speak, I shall put this proposal to the vote.
Fulfil your obligations to Parliament in a generous spirit, thus preparing for the future.
There is no doubt that I myself am one of the advocates of this principle and one of those who oppose any further extension of competences at European level.
Our discrepancy stems from the fact that the Commission continues to misunderstand the character of the general system and the co-responsibility of our arrangement which gives our Basque fiscal rules the same nature, foundation and aim as the rules of the Member States of the Union, and that they are applied in a general way to all tax-payers who, by virtue of points which fall under an external system of law, are subject to those rules.
Indeed, it was fuelled by the potential of this tax to generate income for international, public programmes at a time when demand for such funds was rising quickly and funding was increasingly harder to come by.
The principle of unrestricted liability on the part of manufacturers is also dubious in terms of the principles governing the market economy.
If this is not to be a mere media event, it will need to be carefully prepared by a joint committee, the composition of which the Portuguese Presidency has already proposed.
LEADER+ differs from the previous stages in that all rural areas will be eligible. It is also more ambitious, and better geared to the challenges which rural areas will have to meet.
This is why we explicitly refer to the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund so that the European Union, in other words the Commission and also the Council, can decide how it will defend the opportunity to stabilise the international financial and monetary system and introduce international taxation.
(Applause from the right) It is via diplomacy, persuasion, knowledge, and solidarity, and not with threats or via anti-constitutional means that the institutions can ensure respect for themselves and for principles.
Mr President, it therefore seems worthwhile and necessary to focus attention on both national and regional authorities, especially in connection with boosting employment.
Last but not least the pay and benefits package must be reviewed.
On behalf of all the officials of the Commission and my predecessor, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, I must inform you that we were very alert to the evaluation made by this House and by yourself.
We still have a lot of work to do in this area as recent events have proved.
There needs firstly to be clarity between all of the groups of this House and then between this House and the Commission.
So our Treaty has made provision for barriers for the time when it is too late, but we are not at that point: today we have to take steps to ensure that we do not get to that point.
Nor is our role confined to that of banker.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
It indicates, however, that we acknowledge that steps are being made in the right direction.
Likewise, we cannot simply record the rise in xenophobic feelings in Europe and the increasingly common discrimination without taking wide-ranging action.
Still on judicial cooperation, considerable progress has been made on the legal protection of the euro, and the European Parliament is being consulted on a framework decision which is of fundamental strategic importance.
The issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential.
There are, of course, cases when state aid can be necessary and legitimate, for example helping companies restructure.
However, the people are fighting back, as demonstrated by their reaction during the incredible Seattle Summit. The leaders of the world, headed unfortunately by the European Commission, rushed forward submissively, hoping that their docility at the feet of the master of the world, Mr Clinton, would be enough to ensure them the scraps from the table.
Possible future Member States ought to be involved in, and have an influence upon, the shaping of the EU of the future.
A return to the roots, at last, for a Community built on the basis of the determination to turn our backs on a past history marred by hatred and exclusion and of adherence to the humanist values of openness and tolerance.
This is the philosophy behind the initiative; the budget is commensurate with it and our aim is for development agencies, non-governmental organisations and local authorities to be involved as much as possible, so that it can get as close to the people as possible.
The European Parliament will continue to carefully monitor the implementation of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development as regards the promotion of women and to come up with ideas for the course of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development.
These proposals must include a number of elements, an overview of the cross-border or transnational priorities and strategies, a description of the measures necessary to their implementation and an indicative financial plan.
I can vouch that I have already received significant interest in the ALTENER programme from my own constituency of Leinster, a significant portion of which falls within Ireland' s only Objective I region.
In any event, Article 255 does not, at first sight, allow work to be done on any basis that could affect the principle of subsidiarity.
It is all about the need for modernisation and the future viability of the European competition policy.
How are priorities supposed to be set here?
The second subject is flexibility and simplification.
In common with Mrs McCarthy, I have to note that the number of areas has been drastically reduced.
Furthermore, it is important to remember that 2000 will see the start of the justice and home affairs negotiations with the first group of applicant countries and I anticipate that we will be in a position to make substantial progress in preparing the negotiating dossiers on the second group with which it was agreed to open accession negotiations at Helsinki.
That is why, in my opinion, the manufacturer must take the greatest share of the responsibility.
It is interesting to note that all rural areas may be eligible for LEADER II.
In other words, we are making the transition from the principle of banning to that of misuse.
In my opinion, the Commissioner is quite right.
We therefore think that all the measures we have highlighted in terms of long-term strategies, regardless of the fact that we know that in the long term, some of the homeless may be dead, will help us to guarantee sustainable policies in the European Union.
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
However, there are six, seven, eight, nine perhaps, subjects which it would be very appropriate and useful to address.
It certainly blocks the advance and mobility of people with proven capabilities.
He has also said that the countries in the vanguard of integration should be able to proceed faster and that they should have their own institutions, for the sake of clarity.
The new initiative will continue to pursue these goals by reinforcing them, while particularly promoting equal opportunities between men and women and integrating socially marginalised and disadvantaged groups.
Furthermore, if the courts cannot deal appropriately and expeditiously with the legal workload placed on them, what happens, as Madame Palacio Vallelersundi has already pointed out, is that justice delayed becomes, as we know, justice denied.
We have heard a lot about difficulties of competition in renewable energies but energy efficiency saves money for business, saves money all round in fact and therefore it should be non-problematical.
It has been demonstrated in Germany that income from monetary assets has almost doubled from 7.6% of overall economic income since Tobin developed his idea.
I am thinking in particular of the pre-accession structural instrument, which I shall be responsible for implementing in the next few weeks.
Modern economic science has provided an exceptional instrument with the Tobin proposal and others, which we will be able to use if we have the political will to make a start.
Madam President, I had the same experience as Mr Medina Ortega yesterday.
It is a part of its future which is at stake right now, part of its very essence, its heart and soul.
For these reasons the CSU European delegates are against this resolution.
Competition is certainly fundamental to the social market economy and European competition policy is a success story; take the energy and telecommunications sectors, where there has been a demonstrable lowering of prices and improvement in quality of service.
Members of Parliament must possess the qualities of morality, discipline and discretion over delegated issues innately, and these certainly cannot be imposed on them by anyone else.
No, according to the Christian Democrats in Amendment No. 38: car manufacturers and car drivers should split the cost 50/50.
The overarching objectives of the structural funds such as job creation, boosting equality of opportunity, increasing the sustainability of employment and development, are only mentioned in passing.
It is true, I admit it, and you are well aware of the reasons, ladies and gentlemen.
That is, of course, where you strike a balance between this principle as a political tool and science.
Flags of convenience are one problem, but are not the only one.
The settlers at the Golan Heights will demand to be compensated and there will have to be guarantees of security.
I feel there is a lot of scaremongering going on.
As the White Paper makes clear, the new authority must be a value-added structure.
The report put forward today re-establishes its place in the political sphere.
Provided this report is not watered-down yet again by the adoption of amendments, it will afford us the opportunity to make clear and unambiguous demands of the Commission on a number of crucial points.
We want an area of freedom, security and justice for the citizens of Europe, not against them.
The European Parliament can play its role by taking the initiative, even if it does so timidly, on this subject. However, I agree with the previous speaker that, if paragraph 9 were challenged, this motion would clearly lose its substance.
May I, to finish off, thank Mrs Berger for the great care she has taken in studying the different amendments and for having, in that way, added an important degree of meaning to her report?
On the other hand, what does this statement tell us about principles?
Thank you, Mrs Fraga Estévez.
I am sure that the situation will be just the same and, as far as I am concerned, in my current position, I shall ensure that the contributions of your two representatives are listened to and respected throughout these negotiations.
The purpose of publishing the White Paper is, after all, to collect comments from businesses as well as from other sources.
For Greece, for the neighbouring countries Italy and Austria, but also for Europe as a whole, the social and economic restoration of the Balkans, bringing political stability, is a vitally important matter.
The new service will report to me and it will be accompanied by an Audit Progress Board chaired by my colleague, Mrs Schreyer, who I am delighted to see in the Chamber this evening.
The increase in the number of CFI judges from 15 to 21 and the opportunity it has recently been accorded to have a single judge rule on specific cases are not real solutions but mere decoys, grudgingly granted, which we have become aware of after the fact.
Finally, aid can enable restructuring, offer training, save jobs and thus know-how.
The change of system in European monopolies law that the European Commission is contemplating is high risk as far as competition policy is concerned.
Mr President, I think it is extremely important to point to the present communication' s guidelines for using the precautionary principle as a way of repudiating assertions to the effect that we always want to use the principle for protectionist reasons.
This is unacceptable in my view.
This is also important where the prerequisites for the internal market are concerned.
One condition is that money should be given to those who will make sensible use of it and not to those who might use it for pursuing other aims.
The debate is closed.
It is also true that we note certain deficiencies which have come to light in the report.
The European institutions should follow the example of a number of countries, most notably the United Kingdom, and institute a committee for standards in public life, with a mandate to give advice on professional ethics and rules of conduct in the European institutions.
I have no doubt further reform of EU institutions will be analysed in this debate.
We must reduce CO2 emissions, employ renewable energies, and generally make enquiries, in this connection, as to how the forests of Europe are faring.
One fundamental point to be stressed is the balance which must be expressed in the message from Europe and which must exist between the people. There must also be a political balance between the participants in the negotiations.
Although such measures can never be an alternative for good management, they must be an escape valve when something goes wrong.
I would like to remind those who seek to eliminate the right of small Member States to nominate a European Commissioner that the United States of America gives smaller states the same recognition as larger states in the United States Senate.
The Council and Parliament must work together to provide the resources that the Commission needs.
That is the reality.
I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for all his efforts so far.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, numerous steps have been taken in the past to strengthen the European Union, from the euro to resolutions on a common security policy; even to the response by the 14, the Commission and Parliament to the new coalition in Austria.
- (DE) I have just voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in Austria in view of a possible government being formed between the ÖVP and the FPÖ.
Despite all the delight over the reworking of this Community initiative LEADER+, I do still have one further concern.
In addition, you should know that, on 4 June 1998, the Council approved the recommendation for a pan-European type of parking permit to be introduced for people with special needs, the aim of which is to help them travel in all Member States with a common permit so that they can take advantage of all organised parking areas throughout Europe.
It is important to identify the skills and potential of our regions in the hi-tech sector.
Some may be better than others, and some worse.
What can the European Union do in these circumstances?
Today, something has changed, at least in terms of mechanisms, and especially as regards monitoring, but we are still not satisfied, particularly if debates are held in competent fora that go as far as to discuss a European Public Prosecutor, crimes, fraud, the misappropriation of funds and the disclosure of confidential information pertaining to one' s office at European level.
Today, scientific studies show that the anchovy population in the Bay of Biscay is in danger of extinction, and now there will be measures to restrict the amount of anchovy which can be fished in that Bay.
The European Union did that at the European Union­China Summit in Peking last month where we pressed the Chinese on a number of human rights issues, including Tibet.
Parliament is here renewing its call for an improvement and for cross-border cooperation, and we look forward to a joint fund being created and to the regulation being amended once more in cooperation with the other Commissioners.
The proposals made by a few MEPs impact greatly on this system.
LEADER I applied to the rural areas covered by Structural Fund Objectives 1 and 5b, and 217 local action groups participated in it, with financing of EUR 1 155 million.
Standards in public life is the next main section of the report before the House.
I also expect the Commission to be pro-active in supporting us in our call for codecision in legislative procedures.
I would first like to say how indebted I am to the Commission for seizing the initiative, and for the two draft directives we are discussing here today.
In the new millennium, with new global problems requiring new global solutions, they need to give good arguments why it cannot be done now, rather than why it has not been done in the past.
Does the Commission intend to do nothing - at least it has announced nothing - about this reform in 2000 either?
This Charter is really misnamed because it will actually reduce these rights.
Immigration is too often a synonym for insecurity and violence and purely repressive responses.
Before leaving this area I would add that we agree with the rapporteur that the existing internal audit function must be maintained pending the establishment of the new independent internal audit service in a matter of months.
The plant is not yet there.
The Commission also agrees with Amendment No 11, except for the proposed period of previous employment of only three months, as I explained just now.
We need proper information, given in a proper way and we all have to take this whole process a lot more seriously than in the past.
The Commission will endeavour, for all these specific guidelines, to quantify the data and to obtain specific information based on the implementation of the new Community framework for 2000 to 2006.
Globalisation gives us the chance to shape the world, which is becoming smaller and smaller, as a world of peaceful competition and solidarity.
Our group will, at any rate, do this as far as possible - for environmental reasons and because we have this directive which is well-balanced and encompasses a whole range of issues and difficulties including, for example, the way in which the costs are to be distributed.
In Tampere, the question of granting operational powers was discussed.
In this way we will also be able to speed up matters in surrounding rural areas; it is often forgotten that urban and rural problems in fact go hand in hand.
But it is precisely the regions on borders with third countries which need an operational instrument to foster cross-border cooperation.
The early thoughts of Parliament on this consultative idea would be especially welcome.
Therefore, more than making amendments, we will have to implement measures to control what is already being done, apart from some supplementary requirements with regard to reviews, especially in relation to the age of the different vessels.
When we come to pay, we want to know what the others are paying.
This needs to be looked into because it is clearly an indication that something is seriously wrong.
At the same time, however, it has to be said that, unfortunately, your programme reminds me in many ways of a party manifesto.
Mr President, this excellent directive will end the dumping of old cars, encourage recycling, and above all encourage manufacturers to design cars which can easily be recycled.
We can no longer take care of these matters at the end of a product' s life-cycle. Instead, we should avoid creating so much waste.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau, for his commitment and I welcome his thoughts.
I can go into that in detail if the honourable Member would like but there is no doubt that we are on all fours with the Ombudsman on this important issue.
This cannot, however, be grounds for an extension of the original time limit.
In this respect I must say that, in terms of your commitment to a political union, to which we are favourable, this cannot be achieved unless it is based on our social model, on our originality and our capacity to better regulate the business of this world.
I cannot accept it and I will not vote for it.
We are at a watershed in the history of the European Union.
Some people will say that perfection is not a realistic aim, but a brief look at the background should make our reservations more understandable to them:
Even the accumulation of money from the cohesion funds and the structural funds has failed to have the desired effect in all regions and countries.
The appeal by the European Socialists, on the initiative of Olivier Duhamel, raised awareness and enabled there to be a firm and immediate political response to this unheard of and intolerable situation.
I am not one of the people who agrees that there is a vast lack of trust.
I am in favour of collection free of charge.
While urban renewal in our cities is very important we must always strike a balance in our policies between promoting rural development and improving the lives of city dwellers.
The fact that the public accepts such rates and does not just abandon all financial activities in a panic can be explained by overambitious expectations over future gains.
It is clearly no longer suited to the requirements of a modern, multinational organisation.
It is important to follow up and it gives the Member States, as well as the United Nations and the Commission, something to think about when it is a matter concerning military secrets and their effects on the environment.
Now who should pay the costs?
I would like to finish off by asking the European Council and Commission a question.
Like my group, I shall therefore support this aspect the common position which, I feel, offers a balanced compromise between constraints upon firms and essential advances in environmental protection.
Although a few other groups have been mentioned, it is the Member States, in particular, which are on the lookout.
We will then see, at ministerial level, how we can follow this up.
Even though they can no longer be driven, these nine million cars may still be traded and moved across borders; and not just intra-Community borders, but also those outside the Union.
Of course, this is shared by the whole Commission.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this debate and we welcome the fact that the Commission submitted a document so that we could prepare for the debate.
And we must make certain that the details are applicable, appropriate and relevant to the different countries.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal?
Personally, I at least am totally in favour of the guidelines.
You rightly raise the concern, also expressed by Mr Wieland, at the possibility of workers disappearing into thin air when their work permits expire, but I think that we would be making this even more likely by bringing in a three month permit.
Madam President, reforming and democratising the institutions of the European Union are central to the historic and moral challenge of the enlargement process.
The cause of the disaster must be sought in the weakened structure of the oil tanker.
I am not going to return to what has been said about the analysis of questions concerning Parliament.
We have to keep the pressure up in all areas by removing further barriers, intensifying pressure on Member States who fail to implement single market measures and, of course, extending into crucial new areas like financial services.
This is why it is essential, as a matter of urgency, for the European Union to undertake a radical review of its directives on sea transport to make them more restrictive and to establish clear and specific regulations determining the responsibilities of the owners of the cargoes.
However, nothing is said about the causes of this crisis and those responsible for it.
I think what we need is, at European level, to come up with exact definitions of fraud and irregularity as quickly as possible.
The rapporteur refers to the need to implement an integrated approach to new EU Structural Fund plans and programmes.
Unfortunately, I find the reference to the relevant standards to be lacking.
They may not be transferred in their present form or structure - this is an issue on which we will elicit views before making our definitive proposals on the authority's establishment.
I understand that on 26 January the association wrote to the College of Quaestors requesting permission to set up a table outside the Hemicycle today to publicise their initiative.
This claim that your report makes must be seen in the context of last spring' s negotiations.
This will be a good test as to whether there is reasonable cooperation between the two institutions.
As I suspected, it was not exactly a procedural motion, but more a closing of the debate.
If Parliament want to carry out proper inspections, these documents must be available, and I would like to know what the Commission intends to do to improve this situation.
When we hold intergovernmental conferences and consider changes to the Treaty, we must take into account the fact that the EU is developing all the time, sometimes in contravention of the Treaty, as we have just seen.
There are certain weaknesses, the greatest of which, in my opinion, is that not enough consideration is being given to the situation of small businesses; after all, the car industry is more than just large companies.
I am convinced that the Bible, God' s word, is the only pure source of proper standards and real values.
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
This effort was appreciated, even if different views were later expressed as regards the proposals, and moreover, Mr President-in-Office, you also expressed different views.
The European Social Fund contribution for the period 2000-2006 will total 2 487 billion euro. As the EQUAL initiative is a joint funding venture with the Member States, what will Greece's contribution amount to?
I think we should reinstate this budget line.
The other issue is access to confidential documents.
Mr Barnier has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
Subject: Appointment of a European Union envoy for Tibet In 1998 the Tibetan Government in exile received over 4000 Tibetans who escaped over the Himalayan mountains seeking freedom and refuge at risk of life and limb.
That is the agenda and I think that we should stick to the agenda.
The Commission would have abolished URBAN, but this time Parliament drew the longer straw.
I shall conclude by emphasising that harmonising the professional qualifications of advisers will contribute to improving the quality of the service in the interest of users, to minimising the risks of accident likely to cause damage to the environment as well as significant damage liable to be harmful to any person who may come into contact with dangerous goods.
The year 2000 also marks the start of the implementation of the European Union Drugs Strategy 2000-2004.
The Court of Auditors is to monitor the extent to which actions are incompatible with the regulations, but it should not examine the expediency of a particular action.
With most of Europol employees currently engaged in self-control for the purposes of data protection laws and questions being asked by 15 national parliaments, we may have a great deal of control, but it is inefficient control.
These are two areas of action which I invite the Commissioner to set up and in which I would ask him to involve us.
Right now we do not have the slightest idea as to when the CEN will be in a position to put forward practical proposals.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to focus on two points which are not mentioned in your programme.
Firstly there is the question as to what this directive is actually designed to achieve, that is achieve in the real sense.
After this interesting exchange of opinions, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to tell you that Questions Nos 17 to 27 will be replied to in writing.
Is the understanding of this point the same on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean?
In accordance with the principle of competition, the legislation has implemented Articles 85 to 94, competition policy in the strict sense, and the revision of all state aid and tax provisions which may affect competition.
I think that this is something which we should continually bear in mind so that we do not lose sight of it in our various policies.
This is the type of mechanism we are continually subjected to when playing the game of European integration with the Brussels institutions.
Mrs Schroedter' s report marks a further step towards the transparency and effectiveness of structural aid.
Comments are made here and there to the effect that one group should get more funding than another.
Between 1994 and 1999, our regions annually received an average of FF 15.4 billion but will receive only FF 14.7 billion between 2000 and 2006.
So with those remarks I would like to congratulate you on the programme and wish it every success.
Europe is its people, its history and now its collectivity; but the reason why Culture 2000 is so important to us is for this: I will wager that when we ask the question - 'What is Europe?' - we answer it by saying, 'It is our art, it is our literature and it is our heritage.'
The sixth periodical report gives a basis for assessing the implementation of the Union' s regional policy aims.
That is why the services are already trying to revise the text, simplify its structure and make its wording easier to grasp.
Thirdly, unless they are introduced in all countries at the same time, tax measures are easy to circumvent because there are otherwise too many loopholes.
However, the Commission has to act on the basis of values and law and not only on the basis of instinct.
The rapporteur and the report are right to start from the premise that we should, and must, provide help swiftly, however it is also right to start from the premise that we will not provide help indefinitely or at random.
Even if negotiations are not completed by September of this year, there is nothing in the relevant treaties to prevent a Palestinian state from being proclaimed after that date.
Finally, it is to be hoped that greater coordination will be sought between the INTERREG initiative and the existing Community programmes, which are significant for external policy, as a vector for greater integration and for the joint drafting of programmes.
So much for the quality.
We are fortunate in having the Gulf Stream.
It has unfortunately been observed, I have to say, that the European Union has failed to reach agreement internally on specific tax measures. This indicates how difficult these dossiers are.
We have made a lot of progress over the past couple of years since the reformed system of scientific advice was adopted as a consequence of the BSE crisis.
On the other hand, it is crucial that there are precise indications and sufficient funds in areas such as creating decent jobs - with rights - effectively promoting equality in law and opportunity, and supporting the social economy and solidarity. There must also be support for rural development, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for improving the quality of life of urban populations in deprived areas, specifically in the field of social housing, with a view to achieving sustainable urban development.
The Court of Justice accepted some time ago that Community competition law could be applied by the legal bodies of the Member States and in 1994, the Commission published a communication on this subject.
Mr Purvis has the floor for a procedural motion.
In this connection, I should like to thank the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for adopting one of my amendments adding the EDF to the list of these funds.
The Millennium Youth Park project is helping to get young people re-engaged in regenerating their own community and in addition to support for small businesses and social policy we are beginning to see a turnaround of a very deprived urban community.
I therefore maintain that Parliament cannot force the issue and it would be paradoxical for it to do so in the context of redefining the environmental scope of the instrument.
The issue of the financial envelope was staunchly defended by Parliament in the face of the Council' s very meagre opening offer.
All this to combat fraud worth less than EUR 1 billion, while disregarding the tens of billions of euros lost due to the Generalised System of Preferences, free trade areas, customs presents to Chiquita and the billions lost to the fourth resource, GDP, as a result of the budgetary rationing pact.
I know that all the Institutions bear some responsibility for the increasing workload of the Commission and for some of the lack of resources.
The Portuguese Presidency also attaches importance to reinforcing food safety policy and I think that the Portuguese Foreign Minister and President-in-Office already referred to this aspect this morning.
I should also like to remind you that the idea of setting up an observatory is nothing new.
Commissioner, please read the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and treat it as a matter of priority, because this is our citizens' greatest problem.
Should we not be discussing this issue?
There are amendments here today that are proposing that should be the case.
Three serious issues were discussed: the first was the first discussion on the fifth programme for women, of which I gave an initial evaluation, the second issue was the report by Mr Busquin on the investigation into the participation of women in research and science, and the third involved Mr Kinnock, who reported to the working group on efforts being made to take account of the gender equality dimension in the overall reforms currently taking place in the Community.
This debate, and the background to it, reinforced the point that the Council, the Commission and this Parliament itself are dominated by Socialists.
They are growing, but only in terms of GDP.
However, saying is one thing and doing is another!
Unfortunately this is only true for part of the money, that is only for the borders within the EU.
The first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy.
In this respect, Parliament will definitely defend, along with yourselves, the importance of supranational decision-making.
Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity you are giving me to go into the different amendments in more detail.
Our position on LEADER is a product of our more general assessment of the EU' s overall agricultural policy.
A system, such as the current one, which is capable of making so few decisions, be they approvals or prohibitions, is something less than a valid system.
But while the Commission must ensure that it respects the Treaty and the Financial Regulation in the transitional phase, this must not be an excuse for inertia.
I also wonder about the wisdom of the EU and its reaction to the formation of the government in Austria and how that is going to affect public opinion there.
The people who have participated in this initiative have learnt the importance of learning together, of innovation, of sharing projects and good practices and of understanding and tolerating each other.
(The President cut the speaker off)
And when that day comes, it is too late.
The working document prepared by the Court itself contains alarming information.
However, I could also regard them as a customer, and I believe we should enter into rather clear and timely discussion on the ways in which the social field, that is evolved structures, stifle competition.
Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism had an in-depth discussion on the URBAN initiative which produced many ideas.
It is all about creating a socially just Europe.
I welcome the Commission initiatives now and in the past to support our small and medium-sized enterprises and I would like to congratulate our Portuguese Presidency for its initiative on having a charter for micro-businesses.
In the end, it is only by having these three things in place that we will be able to achieve acceptance amongst the citizens.
This is particularly important where enlargement is concerned, and legislation and in relation to treaties, which entail changes being made to legislation.
In relation to the latter point, Ireland wants to maintain the right to nominate a full and equal Member of the Commission irrespective of the number of Member States joining.
Mr President, I want to thank Mr van Hulten for his report and to say that I voted for it.
We see it as a very positive sign that, in her own conclusions, the rapporteur has taken account of our committee' s proposal that the Cohesion Fund countries should broaden the research infrastructure by locating universities and colleges in such a way that they would serve those who live in undeveloped regions better than now and make it easier for educated people to remain in their home districts.
First, and the Commissioner has also confirmed this, because it places a heavy burden on the capital markets.
VOTE
It is therefore crucially important that the Chamber should be as emphatic as it possibly can be in establishing the fact that all refugees are to have a place on the EQUAL programme.
It is an issue for consideration but it has not been ruled out.
If, in this way, we can move away from the culture of the fifties and cross over into the next century, we are witnessing a very special moment indeed.
There is no need for us to bring Parliament into the discussion on the Commission.
I am absolutely certain that this code will be observed and that Parliament will keep abreast of all the developments and details concerning the implementation of the programmes.
I too wholeheartedly regret this situation.
However, as Mr Marinho has pointed out, more is necessary, but that has to wait for the IGC,
Amsterdam and Tampere have given us much work to do together, as the excellent draft resolution by Mrs Terrón today shows.
This situation will not come about by the very creation of the authority but will evolve over time as confidence is gained in the authority itself.
It was therefore necessary to facilitate this approach.
I would like to end on the following point. Just as the White Paper on food safety was approved last week and released to public opinion with a clear deadline stated, we would request the same in connection with the new White Paper on the reform of the Commission.
I think, therefore, that paragraph 7 contains something very central, i.e. that EQUAL will be used as a testing ground for developing and promoting new ways of delivering employment policies.
It is crucial for us that it should be possible for this Intergovernmental Conference to be concluded before the end of the year 2000 so that there are no remaining formalities, such as the weighting of votes in the Council of Ministers and the composition of the Commission and the European Parliament, which place obstacles in the way of the enlargement of the EU.
The directive states that the polluter should pay and that the cost is to be borne mainly by the manufacturer in accordance with the principles to be found in the EU' s treaty concerning the manufacturer' s liability.
Nobody is asking for an IGC of the Maastricht style with a hundred or more subjects being debated.
These failings will result in particular in the late implementation of INTERREG III and therefore in financial losses for the regions in receipt of aid.
In my own country, mythology tells of the teeming hordes of faceless Brussels bureaucrats but it never mentions the number of European judges.
Although the main achievements in the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice should be mentioned, we must remember that there is still room for progress.
First of all, the importance of a public service in general is not at all emphasised. Secondly, all kinds of proposals are nevertheless being mooted, and we have to ask ourselves whether these are terribly appropriate and whether they would lead to improvement.
It is clear that a radical overhaul of the Commission is long overdue.
It is not your job, it is our job to decide on that.
Why are no-smoking areas not enforced?
We have built a Europe with an unstable market, not a Europe with principles, rights and politics.
I am sure you will be relieved to hear that as well.
Stand firm on the demand for mobility, not as a right, as it says here in the report, but as a management tool.
Will we enlarge with or without deep reform?
These programmes have benefited Kyrgyzstan and to a more limited extent, Tajikistan.
That is why we are reacting against this carry-on in Austria.
Nor do I believe that this is impracticable.
Over the years, a consumer may have altered the product in a number of ways.
That cannot excuse everything that we came across.
That wider responsibility concerns the management of the environment, food safety, foreign trade, the internal market and so many other responsibilities we have given them without the resources to deal with them.
It is particularly important to address those serious issues concerning urban areas, employment in rural areas, aid to agricultural regions and equal development opportunities for the islands of the European Union and for the Greek islands which, of course, comprise half of the islands of the Union, as stipulated in Article 158 of the Treaty.
Indeed you responded in kind, as I knew you would do.
It is clear that the subject of the internal differentiation of the Union will be raised at the IGC.
I feel this is one area where Europe can play a very active role, even if only in providing the conduit for exchange of experience and best practice among the Member States.
This has already been made clear a number times in this debate.
Needless to say, this accords science a great deal of power.
I should like to draw attention to some of the aspects of the resolutions before us this afternoon, one or two of which were referred to earlier on.
It has to be redistributed time and again.
Israel has to accept its responsibilities, withdraw from the occupied territories and share its water resources but, at the same time, it has to be sure that it will be safe and able to live in peace in terms of economic and political relations with all the countries in the area.
Two amendments were cancelled by the services because the content has supposedly already been given consideration to in the report.
It was quite slow in getting off the ground there, but it was slow because it was necessary to have the local people themselves develop these programmes.
Secondly, the new "in" word is flexibility.
I would like to remind the House that at second reading Parliament adopted this report containing eight amendments, including a re-instatement of the Commission' s original budget.
I would like to start by underlining two remarks made by the Member of your Parliament, Mr Gasòliba.
I do not wish to call the distribution of competences between the Commission and Parliament into question.
I very much hope that a compromise can be reached to overcome this so that the peace negotiations can be resumed at a very early date.
In the 1998 Court of Auditors report an exchange rate miscalculation in relation to Italian wine cost the taxpayers of Europe GBP 8 to 10 million.
On one hand, this policy encourages the integration of immigrants where it should favour their assimilation into the culture of the host country. This would prevent the development of ethnic ghettos which are nothing more than urban powder kegs.
The internal market is the basis for our work.
Having also studied the amendments submitted, I concluded that we can go along with these concerns to a large extent and that this will be reflected in our voting behaviour tomorrow.
It is not right that peat should be judged according to the same criteria as, for example, coal.
Indeed the European Parliament must make it its business to uphold this right in hours of need.
Nevertheless, I must make it clear that all these actions will, of course, have to take into account the principles agreed at the Helsinki European Council concerning applicant countries, so that those applicants can cooperate and also be associated as quickly as possible with this project of creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
(PT) The Commission' s main instruments for overcoming regional disparities are the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. It is therefore crucial that the European Parliament drafts its broad indicative guidelines without threatening the principle of subsidiarity, given that establishing the development strategy for each country falls to the respective Member States.
The most remote regions may benefit from support under strand B. The Commission draws up a list of priority areas and eligible measures which for strand A is not comprehensive, but is comprehensive for strand B. The Commission reserves the option to, at a later date, put forward topics it considers important to the exchange of experience and strengthened cooperation between regions, for strand C.
Prevention has to be our answer to disasters of this kind and this draft directive is an important step towards well-trained safety advisers being available, so that the right action is taken in good time.
It can only approve Member States' proposals if they fulfil all the criteria: firstly, integration through sectoral and geographical development partnerships, whereby the employment policy guidelines need to be taken into account; secondly, the systematic involvement of the operators concerned - the local, regional and national authorities, training institutions, universities, NGOs, the two sides of industry and the private sector - with the aim of creating a durable partnership, and thirdly, methods and models of indisputably innovative character.
For this reason, I am particularly pleased to see the monies focussed on projects by small and medium-sized enterprises.
In relation to the makeup of the authority: first of all it will employ in-house scientists who will liaise with and consult with scientists who are experts in the particular field that is being considered at any particular time.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I greatly admire the openness with which you admit that the European Union must change fundamentally.
I want to say to Mr Poos that I very much agree with Mr Duisenberg that these examples show that some EU Member States are not in a position to restructure their economies and, to that extent, are helping to undermine the value of the euro.
It is obviously the Commission' s intention to make the financial control officials subordinate to the individual Directorates-General, but this is precisely what we do not want.
At the same time, it is, of course, essential to avoid any disturbance of competition conditions or of the markets, hence the importance of regulating such aid.
It is essential for these regions to be able to benefit fully from INTERREG III, just like all the other regions in the Union, especially now that the REGIS programme dedicated to such isolated regions has been dropped.
We need new rules to regulate globalisation and we need investment in the real economy and in people. We need the Member States and the Commission to ensure the social dimension of the market economy in a visible manner.
Currently, both sides seem to have accepted that nothing will be agreed until everything is agreed.
Like the rapporteur, I deplore the fact that the figures given in the report do not cover all state aid.
To be proactive the White Paper identifies a number of new areas that would be embraced by the authority.
I believe that as far as the judicial difficulties are concerned that we are facing here - and the European Union evidently has only very limited room for manoeuvre when it comes to making these offences litigable as European criminal offences - we have become embroiled in legalities.
Leaving aside strategic and tactical considerations, leaving aside possible exonerations based on other people' s behaviour and above and beyond party and electoral interests, the Spanish delegation of the People' s Group of this Parliament, in full agreement with the Spanish People' s Party and the Spanish Government, clearly expresses its full agreement with the statement of 31 January by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council.
Hence also this joint debate involving transport and environmental management Members.
Of course this is also the basic idea.
The challenge for the Commission and for ourselves is, however, to find the right mix.
However, criticism has been voiced within my group over the timing of the preparatory work of the committee.
Apart from this, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, the Court is of the opinion that the transfer effected between Portugal and France does not violate the principle of exploiting living sea and freshwater resources in a rational and responsible way, on the grounds that the fishing pressure in zones VIII and IX neither increases nor adversely affects the overall quota of these resources allocated to Spain.
In the same way, it is vital for Member States to fulfil their obligation to report to the Commission on the aid granted to their steel undertakings, as stipulated under Article 7 of the Steel Aid Code.
We must concern ourselves with the reasons for this and try to deal with the reasons behind such results.
The total lack of progress in European citizenship and the political rights of all European residents is to be regretted.
What are the conditions for this recognition?
We must clearly set firm objectives.
Nonetheless, I agree with you, Mr President of the Commission, that many more steps to strengthen the European Union will be needed in the future because the European Union is not strong enough either to master the huge, inevitable task of enlargement or to control current and potential movements which, to put it mildly, have an ambivalent attitude towards European values of democracy and tolerance and the desire to integrate all the people on our continent.
In welcoming the cross-sectoral approach embodied in the new EQUAL initiative, it is crucial that the programme addresses the distinct forms of discrimination which militate against disabled people in particular: physical barriers in the workplace affecting those with limited mobility, visual information systems which exclude blind workers, working systems which effectively close the door on people with learning difficulties or with mental health problems.
Therefore, we will have to see how the requirements guaranteeing the maximum degree of safety can be further improved.
It is clear that the transition to such a new system will take time.
We are seeking to implement best practice.
I also intend to contribute to the process of clarifying the role of action plans as part of the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration, and to make progress in adapting Community agreements in the field of readmission by including standard clauses.
At the end of the day, one of the fundamental tenets of economic theory is that the market is failing in many respects and anyone who takes issue with this is nothing more than an ideologue.
On the other hand, we can be fairly confident for the future because we know the efforts that car manufacturers are prepared to make in order to find (a) materials that are easier to recycle and (b) to set up recycling industries.
We understand that we also have a responsibility here, that if we are given documents we must ensure that confidential documents will indeed be kept confidential.
How, furthermore, can a fund be created which will pay for vehicle recycling and manage operations within Europe.
My last point concerns the future Palestinian State.
In this respect, what the Commission says about boosting Europe' s voice is important.
I hope that the European Parliament will be hanging onto the coattails of the Commission in this reform process.
Madam President, the Commission was correct to make food safety one of its top priorities.
I think that the report drawn up by the Wise Men has been useful and I think that it is also useful for this Parliament - as already stated by Mrs Morgan - that we ourselves should ask for expertise from outside for once to see how our administration is run.
In line with the usual procedure, it is the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) which puts forward standards in this area, and they are then integrated in to the European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road signed in Geneva in 1957 (known generally as ADR), applicable throughout Europe, whose terms and conditions form the basis for the legislation applicable within the EU.
There is also a proposed amendment to both of Mrs De Palacio' s reports.
While, basically, I subscribe to the European Commission proposals, nonetheless there are some conditions which may lead to confusion.
But we also say: we want to defend this European Community of tolerance, which is why a common foreign, security and defence policy is so important.
The first is the fundamental, central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion.
There is no point in drawing up a new economic and social agenda if you have not even finished the old one.
I do not know if it breaks the record for all the resolutions presented here, but, for this type of resolution it certainly does.
Take, for example, the pledges made by the Commission. They look good in themselves.
I must not go on about books, but I have just been reading the book by David Landis Barnhill on what makes some countries prosperous and some countries less prosperous and it is interesting to see there the importance that he attaches to gender issues, in the economic prosperity and political stability of societies, going back millennia.
Parliament knows how important we all consider the question of transparency in competition policy, as I did right from the moment I had my hearing, on 1 September, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
A successive phasing out of State aid is required, and more and more markets must be opened up to competition.
The single market extending across that enlarged Union is going to be a colossal achievement.
Why are there no fire instructions?
I take some mild encouragement from the fact that levels of state aid to industry in Europe appear to be falling.
The financial controller is no longer to make advance checks, if all goes to plan as regards the reforms currently under discussion within the Commission.
In 1999, the Commission also presented its contribution towards a European action plan to combat drugs, which underpins the strategy approved by the Helsinki European Council.
From the point of view of the Commission, in this interinstitutional game, I believe that this is important and I am very happy to highlight it.
President. I have received several proposed amendments relating to the topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
Undoubtedly, reform of the European Council is also going to be included in this White Paper on the governance of the European Union which will be published this summer.
It is simply too bad, and I can well understand why people are becoming impatient and demanding that we have a common European Public Prosecutor' s Office instead.
It is in fact about protecting the euro against counterfeiting, which is an extremely urgent matter.
Furthermore, I will not withhold my support but will endeavour, alongside my fellow MEPs, to bring about improvements and logical solutions within the framework of European and international cooperation.
Thank you, Mr Medina Ortega.
The outcome can be considered reasonable, when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the Council.
Nevertheless, I would like to add that with regard to cultural policy, and in particular the audiovisual dimension, the Portuguese Presidency will be paying very close attention to extending and enriching European audiovisual policy by adopting a Media-Plus programme which could go some way towards allaying Europe' s main fears.
Thank you, Commissioner for your reply.
All this must lead us to intensify our action in favour of developing a common cultural area, within which our cultures can flourish further in all their unique features, in all their diversity, but may also be mutually enriched and the other citizens of Europe may participate fully in them.
I think that this is also the case here, but I think it would be a bit over the top to spend too much time talking about these 100 amendments.
Vote
It merely prolongs transitional rules by postponing deadlines, deletes provisions which are no longer applicable, and lays down the procedures for a) carrying out the ad hoc transportation of dangerous goods and b) enacting less stringent national regulations, in particular for the transport of very small amounts of dangerous goods within strictly defined local areas.
Now to the technical aspect. The safety factor in this type of project, and I am speaking as an engineer, has nothing to do with increasing safety levels in relation to the risk of collapse by a factor of ten or twenty.
In this way, LEADER+ can, together with the programmes under Regulation (EC) No 1257/99, consolidate the second pillar of the CAP even more effectively and produce the best possible benefits for the whole of the countryside.
As Mr Simpson has said very correctly, this is a process which we can never take for granted or regard as having come to an end.
That is where we really get into difficulty.
All the countries in the Mediterranean area must acknowledge human dignity, democracy and the rule of law.
That cannot continue.
Secondly, we need to retain the details as they are included in the common position.
Firstly, we wish to express our total support for, and our solidarity with, the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the 14 Member States, because we believe that this statement is in accordance with the common values, and not just the political force, which we have all built together.
In point of fact, I consider this to be necessary because we heard, following the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market' s visit to Luxembourg, that it is of course inevitable, a God-given fact as it were, that the Court of Justice should take precedence over the Court of First Instance when it comes to using the joint translation service, and so more often than not, important cases handled by the Court of First Instance cannot be given the attention they deserve.
More supervision nationally - supervision by national governments of national banks - and internationally, for example by means of the IMF.
I expect that we will achieve an excellent result in the reconciliation and that the efforts to achieve a better living environment will triumph over unreasonable industrial requirements.
Mr Dimitrakopoulos has the floor for a procedural motion.
I hope everyone, like Mr Decourrière, whom I congratulate, will realise this!
We recognise the proposals on activity-based budgeting.
It seems that the key goal there has become the construction and painting of propaganda panels advertising the fact that such and such a project has been co-financed by the European Union.
The Commission suggests that Member States submit their reports within a time limit of two months following the end of each six-month period or, at least, annually, without the need for reminders.
If we have been having a different debate here in this Chamber today then that only goes to show how important this is.
We are all aware that an all-out federal approach and a situation where a European judicial authority takes precedence over the national judicial authorities is a step too far for some people.
One issue which is referred to in the van der Laan report is the whole question of the Gaza hospital.
Clearly, we must consider the problem which exists here and now and the challenge presented by the existing range of cars.
I would like to see those actions extended to cover health and anti-discrimination, as provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty.
We do not know what is happening.
The meetings of the working group are open and the first meeting was held on 11 January 2000.
Indeed, several years ago, this was the conclusion of a report that I compiled on the strengths and weaknesses of the European steel sector.
The rapporteur, Mr Koch, to whom we express our thanks for the work which he has done on this, has already pointed out that basically everything could have been somewhat more advanced had it not been for the inactivity on the part of the CEN, which has been very dilatory in drawing up and adapting the directive.
A career with the European institutions must become more attractive.
The credibility of Parliament as a champion of environmental protection is at stake.
The regions have not been sufficiently involved in the preparation of the guidelines, although this demand was often made in the debate about the reform of the Structural Funds.
This country has a very small market which, unfortunately, is often at the same time defined as the relevant market. This in contrast to Germany, where a very experienced Kartellamt is exercising its powers within a gigantic market.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report.
It was also stipulated that this would be revised in the light of new scientific information on preserving species, of which we hope to see examples in the first six months of this year.
As an Austrian, I still have a vivid memory, as, I believe, we all do, of the catastrophe which cost so many human lives last year in the Tauern Tunnel, where subsequent work to rebuild the parts of the tunnel which had been destroyed in this fire continued for many months at huge expense.
The Erika, a vessel flying a Maltese flag, a floating rust bucket, classed amongst the most dangerous type of oil tankers, has contaminated more than 400 km of our coastline, a case of pollution even worse than that caused by the Amoco Cadiz.
Madam President, Commissioner, the problem does not lie in the ideology of the debate but in its political nature.
Our response to rural decline has come late in the day, but I suppose better late than never.
The EU must not take on a masculine persona.
We also face difficulties with regard to offences.
And a fully-fledged Europe can compete with the rest of the world and fully rediscover its roots, highlight its common cultural heritage and enhance and restore dignity to cultural and linguistic islands that until now were less well-known.
The White Paper on food safety outlines a comprehensive range of actions needed to complement and modernise existing EU food legislation.
It would be even better if they were involved to a greater extent in the processes of framing and implementing the programmes concerned, otherwise it will be difficult to determine and defend their role in relation to the local and national authorities and even the citizens.
Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission understands the anxiety expressed by a number of you with regard to the scope of the conference agenda.
We risk having not too few charters of rights in this Community, but too many: national, European Union and European Convention; not too few tribunals having the final say about our rights but possibly too many - there is the Court across the river there, there is the Court in Luxembourg.
You also know that this will not only be a short-term problem, but also a medium and long-term one.
It is also necessary to initiate permanent diplomatic relations and to establish constant dialogue.
Mr President, Commissioner, there are just two questions which must be answered.
They have paid already.
Madam President, I would firstly like to point out Mr Poettering' s lack of logic.
I do not want to drag up the issue of this building endlessly, but this is a serious problem.
The proposals in this report are very welcome as an interim palliative, but Europe is a legal construction, its courts are central to its proper functioning.
Mr Wurtz should perhaps remember that not so long ago other members of his party, the French Communist mayors, were sending bulldozers against immigrant hostels in France.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that the European Parliament' s decision to rush headlong into giving its opinion on the Intergovernmental Conference undermines the political significance of the request for talks with the Council, and in the end, makes it rather irrelevant.
The experts think that this problem will be resolved by banning the Commissioners from belonging to political groups.
Clearly this is not a general exemption and the different approach which allow Member States to introduce special provisions are only justified in the case of this special professional qualification.
The Commission has decided that it is neither appropriate nor feasible to devolve risk management power to the authority.
In 1998, the largest case concerned the supply of company capital totalling EUR 540 million to the PREUSSAG in Germany.
In this way, the unanimity principle has shown itself to be a blockading instrument of the first order.
. (SV) Mr President, no one wants more than I do to see a situation in which we are able to apply the precautionary principle in such a way that it is seen as radically protecting people' s health and the environment.
Security considerations have prevented Tajikistan from benefiting fully from TACIS but a rehabilitation programme of EUR 7.2 million has been in place in 1998 and 1999.
Any cost-benefit analysis which truly takes into account all the harm occasioned to persons and the environment by these accidents, is bound to support this approach.
But today, Egypt, Jordan and Palestine have peace treaties with Israel.
Firstly, Parliament must have complete access to all Commission documents.
What guarantees are there of its reliability?
This dilemma stretches beyond the areas which I have already listed.
The things that have given us cause for criticism are not so serious as to stop us wanting to help the people there.
Mr President, Mr Patten, of course, you are very well-qualified to comment on account of the time you spent in China, and you are well aware of how hard the Tibetans are trying to initiate a debate, something which has always been blocked hitherto.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal?
We look forward to a fruitful dialogue with you on this.
We should retain some form of ex ante financial control.
I have no sympathy for amendments once again backing the TAOs. Criticism of the previous Commission' s work was particularly severe, legitimately so, with regard to these Technical Assistance Offices.
When one considers the events that have set these endeavours in motion though, it is only too clear as to why there is a need for them.
Mr President of the Commission, this is indeed an historic moment for Parliament, a five-year programme following the crisis of the Commission.
We also have to demand that our partners in cooperation be committed to projects and fulfil their share of the agreement.
We cannot accept this.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner.
At the same time, it must be made clear that aid can serve a useful purpose, with a view to offsetting the deficiencies of the market and furthering Community objectives.
It only remains to put this principle into practice.
Peat cannot be classified as belonging in the same group as fossil fuels.
We are not just calling for more control, and more control over Europol; our motto here is "Less is sometimes more!"
If we have success in this threefold sense, I believe that these families, these people, these European citizens, will believe more in Europe, and this seems to me to be very important because, ultimately, the cities will increasingly come to play a leading role in European life.
But from the perspective of small Member States it is important that, as the European Commission is reformed, it must be done in a way that ensures that small Member States continue to have representation on the Commission.
I believe it will set the trend for future discussions concerning the precautionary principle.
It must be visible.
Madam President, on a point of order.
This being the case, there are considerable disparities between states, which may be measured in various ways, such as, for example, as a percentage of added value and per wage earner.
The Portuguese Presidency will shortly be presenting a working document on the Eurojust network, since although it is not obviously necessary for judicial control of Europol to be a matter for Eurojust, this option cannot be ruled out at present.
We absolutely have to guarantee our citizens that a disaster of this type will never happen again.
Without wishing to ignore the progress which has been made, we, the European Parliament, would like to draw your attention to the unwillingness on the part of the Council to implement these decisions in many areas, as well as its lack of common vision and, in particular, the lack of transparency and cooperation with the European Parliament.
This should not be taken as a criticism of the Court or of its staff, rather of the Court' s structure and its lack of resources in a growing European Union.
We need to be able to prepare that ground carefully.
Lastly, I would like to mention the profoundly human impression I have formed of the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura: his knowledge, his sense of balance, his intellectual qualities, make him, in my opinion, the best possible rapporteur this report could have had.
Where is the sense of crisis which generations before us had?
In this sense, all high seismic risk areas must be excluded a priori for nuclear installations such as this.
I hope that the Portuguese Presidency - and I add my compliments to those already offered - can convey Parliament' s message and convey the result of our mediation work on Saint Valentine' s day. In any case, tomorrow we shall vote against the IGC agenda.
Our priorities (i.e. the "left-overs" ) must be:
One of these of course is the reduction by around one half in appropriations made available even though they will cover a longer period.
This lesson in wisdom is 100% ideology and 0% knowledge.
In other words, we should ensure that the money falls to Mr Kouchner' s sphere of competence and not to other spheres.
In conclusion, Mr President, Parliament must introduce a principle of democracy: we must implement reforms which allow Parliament to grow and expand its powers, not go into reverse.
It seems to hit on all the right points without just being like some of the old reports, a series of details.
I believe we have to increase the current amount so as to move closer to levels in the United States, but that we also have to reconsider the sums insured on vessels and, therefore, the liability of shipowners, and also to hold liable those who charter ships, which is to say the owners of the cargo.
Finland' s experience, however, is that integration, rather than isolation, is the better way of combating antidemocratic forces.
Public opinion and the press nowadays accuse us of being unavailable to give a response, even though we are going to be funding a large proportion of the national operations.
This is the Commission' s own survey.
I certainly intend to do that with organisations and groups in my constituency in the West Midlands.
It is unacceptable for women to continue to be underrepresented.
Both concern cases with decisions pending before the Court of Justice.
They are areas where there is much need and we have to put them on an equal footing with those areas where we work in cooperation, where almost none exists.
Since June of last year, the OLAF regulation has given better guidance to staff about reporting possible irregularities.
Mr President, I extend our deepest sympathy to all of those who were affected by the storms.
Having made these general observations, I should like to focus on your main comments with regard to INTERREG.
I know that Commissioner Nielson and some of the other Commissioners are doing a fine job, but the rest of the Commission also needs to focus more clearly on that continent, partly by including it among its strategic goals.
By staunchly and speedily denouncing the participation of Jörg Haider' s xenophobic and anti-European party in the Austrian government, a situation without precedent since the second world war, the European Union has come into its political birthright and has confirmed that it is not merely an economic and financial Community, a large market, a "Europe of shopkeepers" .
I am nevertheless extremely pleased that there was no majority for the amendments of Florenz, Lange and others who have actually sought to lever out manufacturer responsibility and make consumers solely responsible for the cost of environmentally compatible disposal of end-of-life vehicles.
The Council has decided to draw up a charter of citizens' rights - and we rejoice in this; it has decided to implement Article 13 of the Treaty, combating all forms of discrimination and xenophobia, and it has decided to approximate the laws on conditions for admission and residence, as well as guaranteeing residents treatment which is fair and on an equal footing with the citizens of the Union.
Have you stopped to ask what would happen if the wish of a certain fellow MEP was to be fulfilled and elections were to be held in Austria in the course of the next few days?
Funding for NGO programmes in Tajikistan amounted to EUR 7.42 million in 1998 and 1999.
States can carry out port inspections.
Mr Fruteau stated just now that the fruits of growth were distributed inequitably.
Mr President, Mrs Stenzel, ladies and gentlemen, before addressing the EQUAL report itself, I should like to make a point of principle in connection with the employment guidelines on which the report is based.
The recent dioxin scare in Belgium, prior to that the BSE crisis in Britain, and the continuing controversy over the safety of genetically-modified foods, have all contributed to undermining consumer confidence in the safety of the food they eat.
What kind of requirements do you think our children and grandchildren and future legislators are going to make of cars?
It can be explained by the feeling of helplessness of the people who are the victims of the ideology of mighty Mammon and by the choice of the ruling classes to promote strong government in order to take their policies of austerity and deregulation ever further.
You see, ladies and gentlemen, we have only just initiated the new programming and we are already considering together the impact of the Union' s enlargement on our structural policy.
A declared belief in human rights, democracy and the rule of law, in an honest reappraisal of Austria' s role in the past, in passing on information on the gravest crime against humanity in the 20th century, the holocaust, will also be reflected in the fundamental accord underlying a future coalition government between the ÖVP and FPÖ.
We intend to share our more detailed thoughts on the matter with Parliament and Council soon.
The ban on discrimination is the rule in the package of directives and programmes which we submitted.
Secondly, when deciding which areas must be subsidised, we must concentrate efforts on integrated projects.
The Commission can also approve Amendment No 26 with certain editorial changes.
I am happy that he raised it because it is particularly important for this authority to have a high profile.
In actual fact, it is the other refugees, namely those outside the quota and those not covered by UN aid, who need aid the most.
The compromise reached by the Council is fair but fragile.
Who is going to defend these speculators, when nurses and teachers are paying top rates of tax?
Expenditure on research and technology actually forms a sizeable part of the budget of the European Union, after agriculture and the Structural Funds.
Through his management, Commissioner Monti achieves good results, as did his predecessor and, clearly, he has established a guarantee which, in parallel with the creation and development of the European internal market, has been capable of establishing the corresponding corrective measures so that the market economy within the Union may work adequately, without the distortions which we economists know may arise when the market is enlarged, as has happened in the European Union since 1993.
How do you aim to eradicate homophobia, racism and sexism?
Many dossiers are currently being filed with precisely this concern.
I have said, furthermore, that I would play my part by visiting each of the national parliaments.
We have a huge task in reconstruction and we will be judged according to how we fulfil it.
We are also currently examining how we can most effectively implement the proposal for a classification system for documents, made in paragraph 50 of Mr van Hulten's report.
I salute these joint efforts to repair the damage.
In view of this situation, renewed interest has been expressed in the proposal by James Tobin, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, to create a tax on currency transactions. The rate of this would be very low so that it did not affect trade in goods or investments, but it would act as a light brake on the wheels of speculation, thereby checking the multiplication of short-term transactions.
For example, I believe it is worth considering making the Court of First Instance that of Last Instance, if applicable, and making this a final competence, in those spheres where benches of the Court, which resemble courts, pass judgement at a preliminary stage - I need only mention the keyword Alicante or whatever the plans are for European civil service law.
Our vote in no way constitutes an endorsement of the signatories to this compromise resolution, their present policy or their future attitude should the threat of the extreme right become more serious.
For it is the third section of Mrs van der Laan' s report that is the most important, to my mind, namely the motion for a resolution.
I. the draft Council decision amending Decision 88/591/ECSC, EEC, Euratom establishing a Court of First Instance of the European Communities (5713/1999 - C5-0020/1999 - 1999/0803(CNS))
The extent of their importance can be seen in the political implications of the delay in resolving the outstanding Anglo/French dispute over British beef which has caused such anger in my country and such frustration with the workings of the Union' s disputes resolution procedures.
What we are talking about is nothing more and nothing less than the future of Europe, and, in particular, a Europe that the citizens truly regard as being theirs, because they are instrumental in shaping it and because the cares and concerns, the problems and issues they face on a daily basis are also taken seriously by politicians.
The Commission' s declared intention to regulate the conditions of competition on the European market is ridiculous, for the only law which competition respects is the law of the jungle where the most powerful squash or devour the weakest elements.
On this specific point I think it is important that we address the reform of the internal decision-making procedures of the Commission.
The challenge is to make the system the very best.
The politics of closed doors and private discussions; all that must be consigned to the past once and for all.
We also have to think of the consequences, especially in terms of financing and compensating farmers.
I would like to point out, however, that this starting point indicates to us the challenges which face us: maintaining a population in rural areas, given the changes taking place in all types of economic activity owing to agriculture' s increasing lack of importance amongst the various sources of income for rural society.
The Archbishop of Milan, Monsignor Carlo Maria Martini, is calling upon all politicians, in particular those like you and me, President Prodi, for whom the cultural and historic principle behind their presence in politics is the principle of the active involvement of Catholics in politics, to reconsider a development process, which, in addition to economic profit, takes the marginalised and those left behind by society very much into account.
Research is particularly essential with regard also to the EU' s next round of enlargement.
We are also concerned at the number of amendments which, in seeking to introduce greater flexibility, run the risk perhaps of obscuring responsibility for the management of the EQUAL initiative.
I wonder what kind of mediaeval bureaucracy is at work here preventing a Dutch channel from being transmitted by satellite.
At the same time, the internal audit function is carried out in an uncoordinated way by several bodies, notably the same Financial Controller, the Inspectorate General and by some units operating Directorates-General."
What measures is the Commission taking to facilitate opportunities for the disabled in this area?
Firstly, I would like to make it very clear that the Union is the main contributor to aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo.
The Atlantic West Coast once again is paying a high price for their inability to react, for their capitulation to the multinationals.
That is why I and my Group are proposing three key amendments and additions to the text, not to take anything away from the proposal, but to make it more relevant to those whom it is there to guide.
Since the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs did not go far enough in this respect, I abstained.
But can you also provide confirmation concerning the matter I raise in my question, namely that the programme will be designed in such a way that we shall obtain a concrete timetable for the various types of legislation in the social sphere which the Commission is planning, as well as for those initiatives which the Commission is planning with regard to dialogue between the two sides of industry?
An enlarged Europe must build on the existing strengths of the Union.
For these reasons, we are going to vote in favour of the report.
We need to be able to prosecute people who commit fraud against the European Union.
However, the full potential of these values will only be realised if they are set out in comprehensive detail in and form part of the Treaty and, in the final analysis, represent legal claims on the part of individual citizens.
All of these measures are designed to make it more coherent, understandable and flexible.
In light of this new international demographic class portrayed by experts at the UN, is it not about time you abandoned your traditional, conservative views on refugees and immigrants?
I believe it falls to you, as President-in-Office of the Council, to see to it that the train does not keep rolling on as before, leaving the people behind on the platforms as if they were ignorant as to the content of the treaties.
If the knowledge of the facts and this debate and the arguments are as we say, and I think that they are right, then to take up another six months of the Commission' s time and occasion uncertainty on the financial and capital markets would be irresponsible.
I would also like to say a few words about ex post financial control.
This has been the year in which policies on justice and home affairs have been provided with a Community framework.
To conclude, I would just like to say something on the principle of subsidiarity. I believe it to be of vital importance that where Member States allow regions and local authorities to raise taxes, they should continue to be able to do so and not be subject to across- the-board regulation by Europe.
They have very little of it.
If peat cannot be classified directly as a renewable, non-fossil energy source, it must form its own class, especially as far as the issue of environmental taxation is concerned.
For example, as they stand, the Commission' s programmes will preclude us from meeting our obligations under Kyoto.
Can the Commission say what its precise intentions are regarding the presentation of a new social action programme?
Of course, the Minutes for tomorrow' s sitting will take into account any additional explanations.
Some have said it is not right for us to interfere in Austrian politics.
Madam President, as you know the Cederschiöld report has been taken off Thursday' s agenda. That ought to mean that we have more time on Thursday.
Madam President, I am amazed at Mr Corbett' s reaction.
This is essential for an executive administration that must be accountable, not just to this House, but more generally to the European public.
There have been some votes where we have not followed the guidelines of the Group of the European People' s Party, and we have voted in favour of the Terrón i Cusí resolution, which we consider on the whole to be excellent.
The work is done. All that remains is the business of enforcement.
We have an important part to play in the Community in the European Union in this regard.
Only after such critical appraisal of the future policies of the parties involved in the coalition discussions can a decision be made as to whether this government is contrary to the democratic spirit of Europe.
The main merit of the text of this communication is therefore the fact that it exists.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, at this stage, following this debate which I have listened to most attentively and with great interest, I should like to make a few comments in addition to the guidelines and the statements which it has been my honour to present to you in the course of recent weeks in the company of President Prodi.
Consequently, I feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003, and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003.
Former ADAPT projects range from the CORE project, which has developed new supply chains for the car industry in Bedfordshire, to projects to raise standards in small businesses in Hertfordshire in Essex.
The first is that this matter is sub judice in several European countries, and I would like to remind Members that there is still no European judicial area nor a European legal system.
How many meetings of the group have been held to date?
In reality, the motive underlying the increased interest in the Tobin tax and other sources of international finance in the mid-nineties was non-economic.
It is self-perpetuating in a world of ever higher bids which constantly denies the humanity of man, the rich as much as the poor. Yet it is the latter who, at the end of the day, are excluded from the majority of the world' s decision-making centres for these are monopolised by a tiny minority referred to recently, and very aptly, by Jean-Pierre Chevènement as the globalised élites.
It underlines the fact that, in order to ensure sustainable urban development, an urban policy must be implemented which does not leave out the main victims of the economic crisis, namely the unemployed, immigrants, refugees, women and the socially excluded.
Do you imagine that the 18 million unemployed people in Europe are victims of too reticent an application of this competition policy?
Employment policy measures should also be eligible for funding under strand B, especially for the applicant countries as part of the pre-accession strategy.
I think it is exceptionally difficult for us to specialise in aid programmes for personal transport.
The plastics industry for the most part does not want to take these things back and cannot economically do so.
This is probably the only way to achieve less fraud, less overheads, more transparency and more democracy.
A fair and, indeed, generous deal with them remains the key to lasting peace in the Middle East.
Admittedly, this reform is one of increasing flexibility rather than dismantling.
Subject: Portuguese Presidency and development policy Will the President-in-Office of the Council make a statement on the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency with regard to development policy, the Convention of Lomé and tackling famine situations?
I hope that all political groups will support us in our request for a public hearing.
Our project of a Europe that aims to satisfy social needs envisages the convergence of living conditions towards the highest common denominator.
If the conclusion is that Turkey is planning to build a nuclear power plant that does not meet normal European safety standards is concerned then we would do the same as we did with Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria.
I am fully in agreement with the monitoring committee and the rapporteur on this point.
It was raised quite recently in the Environment Council by a number of ministers who want the Commission to look at what basis there might be for a ban and at what might need to be done.
The Community initiative programme in each Member State must comply with the regulation. This is the same as the Social Fund regulation, i.e. EQUAL comes under the Social Fund regulation.
I have absolutely no doubt about this and I believe it is an essential point.
I wanted to ask the Commissioner whether it is true that soldiers of the NATO armed forces now stationed in that region undergo special controls against nuclear radiation and that the same measures are not applied to civilians living in the area?
Consequently, the Commission has asked for the advice of a group of experts regarding the entirety of the reforms which could be implemented in order to enable the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance to maintain the quality and coherence of their administration of justice in forthcoming decades.
Mr President, this directive has been under discussion since 1997.
It should not be about greater integration of the EU countries in the form of a federation but about using our economic potential across national borders.
A genuine flaw in the guidelines are specific guidelines for the orchestration of coordination between the ESF and employment strategy. The fact that this coordination is being put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme period implies that the Member States really do need "guidelines".
We need to see which concrete alternatives the Commission will adopt during the coming period and which initiatives it will take for the purpose of reaching agreements.
I welcome Mr Barnier' s statement and I also welcome the measures which the Commission has announced.
In committee we are not in favour of reducing the number to 50.
I think the lines that you have set up regarding the Food Safety Authority are a recognition of reality.
We are recovering from a crisis. However, I believe that, in the future, it would be appropriate for the investiture of the next Commission to coincide with the presentation of a legislative programme.
I believe - as I think we all do - that Portugal, its former president, Mr Soares, and its government, maintained a cautious and middle-of-the-road stance during the bombings in the Balkans.
State aid is not only counterproductive because, as the Jonckheer report acknowledges, it gives rise to subsidy hunting with firms relocating from one country to another, but it is unacceptable because it allocates public monies to the enrichment of a handful of private shareholders.
I should also like to make a few comments, firstly, Mr Berend, regarding the assessment you have made of this sixth periodic report.
The confidence of millions of Europeans cannot be won without being worthy of this.
For this, of course, central policy must interact and be coordinated with development policy, so that the latter too can be reorientated and can work synergistically with the objectives of any URBAN programmes implemented in our countries, and so that it is not just using them as an alibi for its own shortcomings.
I am of the opinion that these are two important remarks, and that is why I am reiterating them here.
These are two of Vice-President Marinho' s ideas and, I believe, they are seconded by the whole of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
I recognise that the FEO is located in Dublin and, although I come from that part of the world myself, I have to accept that it is not the centre of Europe!
Moreover, this proposal is liable to set off a chain reaction of totally unforeseen reforms.
(The sitting was closed at 8.40 p.m.)
We must create a cross-border culture, and to this end we must be innovative with regard to administrative cooperation, imaginatively overcoming existing barriers and overcoming the difficulties posed by the differing levels of competence in each Member State, in each region and each municipality.
I hope that the Commission will use it in its reform work.
That is why we need transparency.
A second argument for keeping the dismantling of cars out of the manufacturers' clutches is the cost of transport.
I think it would be appropriate to begin thinking about these things before disasters happen.
Under Article 88, the Commission is obliged to supervise state aid.
Without them we would not be able to function.
When I read Mr van Hulten' s passage about personnel policy, I am afraid that Parliament may again be failing to tackle the crucial issues and just spouting a lot of hot air.
My second point is that we need a properly resourced Commission.
Our group is keen to stress the importance of cross-border activity under the INTERREG programme and especially cooperation focusing on areas outside the European Union.
However, Mr Kinnock, your presentation to the Committee on Budgetary Control this coming Tuesday must not just be a one-way street; rather, as Parliamentarians, we want, and must, play a part in this and it also goes against my understanding of politics when I find that yet another press conference has taken place this week, before we have had chance to carefully discuss the submission in the competent Committee on Budgetary Control.
Recently, because of political developments in Austria, there is growing unease within Europe. Political demonstrations are taking place as well as political dialogue.
(The President cut the speaker off)
The process of increasing safety margins and safety guarantees in transport is a process which must be improved day by day.
Finally, in relation to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the citizens of Europe need to have a vision of citizenship.
Due to the elections to the European Parliament taking place around this time, however, Parliament was not able to undertake its examination of these guidelines until after the text had been definitively adopted, in July 1999.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 February 2000.
He said that globalisation is a positive phenomenon, and I share his view.
This is not the way to create the conditions for the nations of Europe to live together in harmony and to be able to cooperate to achieve a shared future.
On the subject of these two initiatives, then, with the light they cast on future strategic and political thinking regarding regional planning and on future financial perspectives, let me express our great interest in this constructive dialogue with the European Parliament and its committees.
Many of the refugees had been severely frost-bitten and many had died along the way.
I would like to take this opportunity to help you recognise them.
The Greek Government acknowledges the problem of its being unable to record human resources entering and leaving work and is therefore committed, firstly, to restructuring public sector employment services in Greece, secondly, to setting up efficient employment promotion centres - this programme has already started but has not yet been completed - and, thirdly, to introducing a system of electronic employment cards and using suitable IT systems to monitor all these policies.
Under the arrangements contained in the Treaties, the United Kingdom retains its border controls.
At the moment it seems that the Haider Party is getting more support rather than less from the opposition by outside governments.
Cars are also part of our cultural heritage. I think we would all agree on that.
I also agree with the criticism that no emphasis has been put on the implementation of Article 82, especially when we are witnessing abusive conduct in a context of market concentration.
The major problem is not that no measures are being taken against crimes committed against the Union but, rather, that these are committed so often and far too seldom discovered.
Also the type of project funded needs to be shifted away from small-scale revenue-based projects, which are hard to monitor, towards capital schemes where, in the majority of cases, the benefits are there for all to see.
In addition, I do not believe that paragraph 10 fully reflects the opinion of the Court of Auditors in 1997.
This is ultimately cheaper, also for the consumer.
There is nothing unusual about what is happening in Austria: there has been a changeover of power following democratic elections, in consequence of which an old system was voted out and a stable parliamentary majority prepared to carry out the necessary economic and social reforms was sought and found.
That is an issue for consideration and discussion.
A new independent audit system service must be set up.
The Union' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy.
Third-country nationals with a permanent right of residence in one Member State do not enjoy the right to freedom of movement within the European Union.
For in the course of the next few years, the proportion of renewable energy sources is to double, accounting for at least 12% of energy consumption.
One of the reasons why we were very keen to bring this forward was because, whether we like it or not, the European Union has a reputation for fraud and mismanagement. It is sometimes exaggerated but there it is.
During the procedure, agreement was reached on the studies and actions to devise, implement, complement and assess the Community measures.
However, in this context, Madam President, to allow us to work out the details, I should like to request that the vote on the EQUAL report be held not tomorrow but on Wednesday.
We shall now hear Mr Wurtz speaking against this request.
I think the fact that the Commission does not address the issue of cohesion is extremely serious.
Acceptance of Amendment No 17 by the Commission would mean that a simple duty of notification would apply if no valid card is issued.
If it is higher than at the previous elections, it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge.
The basic aim of the communication is twofold.
Clearly, many citizens are 'disenchanted and anxious' about the lack of real and lasting solutions to basic problems, such as unemployment and social exclusion, which affect our very existence. This must be one of our absolute priorities.
We therefore have unstable communities which are infiltrated with crime, drug-dealing and gangs.
Member States cannot be allowed to proclaim European solidarity in public while trying to undermine the single market in private.
A5-0078/1999 by Mr Rapkay, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the European Commission' s XXVIIIth Report on Competition Policy 1998 [SEK(1999) 743 - C5-0121/1999 - 1999/2124(COS)];
So much for the first comment.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I have read and re-read the Commission' s document setting out the strategic objectives for its term in office.
On this latter point we are reflecting on whether it might be useful to adopt a framework regulation which makes common provision on leading issues like pay, conditions, staff representation rights and so on, but enables the different institutions to operate implementing rules on other matters.
I also appeal to the Austrian President, that he might yet look into all the possibilities for forming a government made up of democratic forces.
Madam President, I would like to comment on the Florenz report.
My question in the first place concerns the opportunities the disabled have to take advantage of freedom of movement in Europe.
This is therefore an aspect to be considered.
Thank you, Commissioner Kinnock.
It is because the richest people are being favoured everywhere with state money that throughout Europe social protection is being reduced, public services are being abandoned, hospitals are being closed.
After all, it makes no sense to copy the many sound recommendations made by the Committee of Wise Men word for word in your report.
This increased awareness does not, however, affect identity alone.
That is in line with the draft resolution.
He mentioned earlier that the report was carried with a significant majority but not with my support.
Two important questions have arisen in this regard. Yes, there are in fact more than two questions, but I want to mention just two of the most important.
The time is now right, I think, to consider including the exchange of positive development experience in the scope of transnational cooperation.
In this respect, we are faced with the most sensitive issue: what role would a European Public Prosecutor play in relations with the individual national communities and their domestic legal systems?
On the one hand, it continued to refuse to accept the term "European cultural policy" or other similar terms, even undervaluing the terms of the Treaty, and it defines "Culture 2000" simply as an instrument for cultural cooperation and no more.
Provide the Commission with the necessary resources and recognition essential for it to carry out its work and for it to verify the real progress made at Community level and at the level of the Member States, and we will be - and the Council will be - able to deal with the decisions made at Tampere and move towards a Union which is freer, more just and more secure.
It is true that consultation with Parliament has only come about at a late date.
This is why the National Front voted against the report.
Otherwise, the challenge really would be lost, not just for the present but also for many years to come.
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
There is currently little financial incentive for this when the insurance market picks up the tab.
I would ask him to take this complaint into consideration and inform me, within the foreseeable future, of the steps the Commission will take to penalise this violation of the Schengen Treaty by the Belgian State, in accordance with Article 226 of the Treaty.
You said that in Lisbon you intend to discuss more dynamic and competitive development.
We need a public debate on this.
Thirdly, we expressed, in very explicit terms, that we will uphold without fear or favour the values and the provisions of Article 6 of the Treaty; and that we will take our part under Article 7 of the Treaty in ensuring that those values of liberty and democracy and fundamental freedoms are upheld.
The important thing is that we are consistent, and I have been committed to working towards this consistency ever since I accepted the position of Commissioner.
This commitment is important because the Commission is a body with a monopoly of initiative in accordance with the Treaties and, therefore, basically dictates this Parliament' s political and legislative activity for the next five years.
We are also preparing a communication to instigate a debate on means of ensuring greater security in the information and knowledge society and in combating computer crime.
The French delegation in our group is therefore unable to support the Decourrière report and will choose to abstain during the final vote.
In order to complete the programme and be able to present it, we first need to complete our consultations with Parliament, the social partners and non-governmental organisations.
The next item is the report (A5-0108/1999) by Mrs Schroedter, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the communication from the Commission in the field of the Structural Funds and their coordination with the Cohesion Fund: guidelines for programmes in the period 2000-2006 [COM(1999)344 - C5-0122/1999 - 1999/2127(COS)].
I have, however, taken note, particularly with regard to the most remote regions, Mrs Sudre, Mr Fruteau, and Mr Nogueira Román too, that your observation is that there is still much to do - and this is my third point regarding the policy - in terms of improving employment take-up aspects, the fight against social exclusion, which is particularly serious and intolerable in many of our regions, and the integration of women and young people into the labour market.
I also deplore the fact that the European Parliament has been totally excluded from the Advisory Committee on State Aid.
If the Commissioner is unable to do so today then would she be prepared to inform the committee in writing of how matters stand and what stage negotiations between the CEN and the Economic Commission are at?
This is why we considered it essential to improve the report by means of our proposals deliberately to include agricultural activity and farmers in the strategy for rural development and to request more appropriations in order not to threaten the survival of the programme in those rural regions which were covered before. We also want to ensure that the new programme continues to prioritise the less-favoured regions.
Programmes and objectives usually turn out to be far too ambitious and their results are not always satisfactory, while the lack of transparency and complexity of the plans often allow considerable scope for mismanagement and even fraud.
Obviously everyone will hope that his prediction of what may happen in the future is on the gloomy side.
It is very important for this ALTENER programme to go hand in hand with this campaign and to support it.
Thank you for your answer.
We should remember that the most disadvantaged include immigrants and refugees.
I also wish to express my concern to ensure good cooperation between INTERREG and the EDF, particularly for the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean.
Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Patten very much for the awareness he has demonstrated of the difficulties inherent in the peace process and the challenge that the European Union is taking on to bring it to completion.
Capital tax
In this connection, the Commission is proposing to limit yet further the cooperation actions of local action groups to only candidate countries.
I have classified the issues raised by the honourable Members into four groups.
I believe Parliament should support these forces of democracy.
The state hand must still be clearly seen to regulate the market and the Commission must act as judge.
This is no longer tolerable.
Some of the measures we have put in place in the past have not been honoured by some of the Member States - and let us not forget that the Member States are responsible for implementing about 80% of the EU budget.
Mrs Ahern raised the issue of liability.
In the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, the Confederal Group of the European United Left was in agreement with the draftsman of the opinion, Mr Nogueira Román, on LEADER.
Yet, there is some risk of dilution of effort. If we pursue too many objectives, our overall effectiveness suffers.
Our priority, as we wait for Community-level funds to be freed up, is for material aid in terms of partnership exchanges between Member States.
It will form the framework for emergency assistance for combating war damage if such action should be needed.
We could, in no way, agree with his view that it would be demeaning for Parliament to set out detailed instructions as to what we wanted the Commission to take up in its reform package.
We need from the Commission material we can use to help us scrutinise spending.
The Union professes its faith in its fundamental values in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the institutions of the EU confirmed this faith once again when the new coalition was formed in Austria.
It is precisely upon price levels that consumer policy has failed to focus sufficiently.
I regard this as absolutely unacceptable and would ask you to contact the British authorities in order to ensure that this does not happen again and that Mrs Lucas receives an apology. I have written to you in this respect together with my colleague, Mrs Hautala.
Or their Socialist back-up troops who, in this House, have the cheek to thrust their values down our throats?
I therefore call on the Council representatives to look beyond their national boundaries and bring about a uniform asylum procedure for the whole Union.
If Parliament votes in favour of the Committee on Budgetary Control' s proposal this week and grants discharge, then the Commission must not take this to be a blank cheque.
It appears that there is agreement and support with regard to the prioritisation of South-East Europe, with regard to enlargement and - as I have said already - with regard to the process of integration and the strengthening of the Euro-Mediterranean programme and our ability to prevent conflicts, as well as an issue which we seldom talk about; the North-South challenge.
Proposals are drawn up by Member States and are submitted for approval to the European Commission, which checks their conformity with the general guidelines, adopted.
Though time forbids me, Mr President, from commenting in this debate on each element in the resolution before the House, I readily give the assurance that the details will be treated as an important input into our reform proposals throughout this consultation and indeed to our work in other relevant areas.
The problem is that in this case Father Christmas has to follow orders and therefore he can only give presents when he is authorised by others to do so.
We ask for a guarantee that the decision-making bodies for the projects are represented equally by three elements: political representatives and public administrations, companies and economic operators, and social operators, including unions and non-governmental organisations.
A farce because we know and appreciate the work of Commissioner Vitorino and what we have here on paper is a blatant contradiction to how things actually stand.
However, the Council should also bear in mind that, if we are to improve the effectiveness of the fight against crime, we do not only need to widen Europol' s remit, as decided at Tampere; we also need to increase the number of officers and extend its remit to operational activities.
After all, innovation in areas that have already grown prosperous is paying dividends even now and taking place without European funding.
I admit that, at present, the matter seems to be somewhat confused.
In the course of my speech, I would also like to address Lord Inglewood regarding the remark he has just made.
Very well, it is a fungicide, it kills off mould.
The report on competition policy further stresses the Commission' s confidence in hard and fast rules instead of putting the emphasis on economic arguments regarding efficiency, which affects competitiveness.
We are talking about macrofinancial aid.
The law must be correctly applied in matters of competition.
The Presidency and the Council can realise what was incomprehensibly rejected in Tampere, even though this summit provided an important basis.
It would amaze and depress me if it were not to do so today.
Also because I know how many social democrats in this House share our criticism, and not just the economic and financial policy experts.
The agenda is not designed to secure justice for the citizen.
OLAF, Europol and the Treaty on Extradition and Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters should be used fully and, when the Fraud Convention from 1995 is at long last ratified in the Member States, we can also achieve a lot with this.
However, this should not lead us to accuse the whole merchant marine, which is an important sector of the economy, covering as it does 1/3 of transport requirements, which is why our reaction needs to be measured: strict, but correct.
Mr President, I am pleased to see the convergence of viewpoints there is between Parliament, particularly the Committee on Budgets, and the Commission, and we can assure you that, for our part, we shall always be there to assist the Commission in the performance of its duties.
Many volunteers from France and other European countries have expressed their solidarity by lending a hand to the victims in the field.
I would therefore appreciate your support for Amendment No 45.
According to the information which the Commission services have given me, this legislation is not adequately applied in many Member States due to a lack of personnel, means and inspectors.
I am certain that we are going to have more conflicts, for example with the United States.
Exceptional financial aid to Kosovo
We got an increase of 2 million on their starting figure which was a decisive increase which I can recommend to you and which the Commission confirmed that it could implement the programmes under.
He said we must not always be carried along by lawyers.
In this way vehicles of historic value can be preserved for future generations.
I would wish URBAN to be orientated mainly towards providing answers to those causes of urban deprivation.
These proposals must be seen as part of our mission to have the highest food safety standards in the world, boost consumer confidence and increase markets for farmers and producers in the Union.
The recent laws on aliens adopted in my country, Spain, and in Belgium, are a reminder that there is an urgent need for the communitisation of immigration policy.
In this area we must respond to public opinion.
The reason is as follows: this issue concerns no less than 1 800 000 employees within the European Union.
For instance, religious schools could quite properly say to a Roman Catholic for example: we do not want to employ you because you are a gay man or because you are a lesbian.
That is an undesirable situation, we do not want that situation in the future.
In congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work, we can but hope that the Commission will duly take into consideration the proposals Parliament has put forward, in accordance with the commitments made under the Code of Conduct on the implementation of structural policies, and that it will confirm, with fitting amendments, the transformation of this Community initiative from a mere instrument for internal redistribution to an opportunity to boost and enhance relations with neighbouring countries.
What measures does the Council intend to adopt, and when, with a view to taking proper account of the critical state of anchovy stocks, the aforesaid quota transfer and the principle of relative stability?
(Applause from the PSE Group)
Forty years on, this proposal has again been placed on the table and I am certain that it will create room for manoeuvre for the monopolies, to the detriment of Europe' s consumers.
There is already a very successful industry out there which is shredding cars, recovering metals and recovering energy by the incineration of the non-metallic parts.
Quotas are not, therefore, the only parameter in the matter of environmental compatibility, just one of many.
Amongst the statistics there is a worrying upward trend in the time taken to deal with preliminary references.
It is not an old one, it was issued in 1997.
Today, the Commission is obliged, on a case-by-case basis, to weigh considerations of confidentiality against people' s demands for, and expectation of, transparency and, if the Commission' s regulation is adopted, the Commission will be entitled to lock away whole categories of documents without having to give them specific consideration.
It is also of great importance to citizens.
Austria is a free, independent and sovereign country.
All these stock market battles are based solely on forecast increases in profit of 15%, 20% or 25% which are unrealistic in the long term.
It plays down one of the Treaties' principles - that of economic and social cohesion - which must inform all of the European institutions' policies and measures. It seems to ignore the fact that various European regions are still considerably less advanced than others.
As regards the specific guidelines governing the initiative, they are broadly defined to give scope for local and regional diversity.
Although I wholeheartedly support this aim, I would much rather see such aid eliminated altogether.
The main danger awaiting us in the medium term is not inflation but deflation caused by the collapse of the speculative bubbles on the international financial markets.
A very large industry might then emerge which would ensure that scrapyards, which used to be a common feature in our Member States, would then disappear.
Only, without transparency there will be no acceptance, indeed there can be no modernisation without transparency.
Lending forestry equipment and making personnel qualified in forestry management available are also covered by this measure.
The Amsterdam Treaty and the Tampere Council built on this project for an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union.
- (FR) I voted against the joint resolution on the situation in Austria.
The first concerns women, gender and women's rights.
Report (A5-0022/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council decision providing exceptional Community financial assistance to Kosovo (COM(99)0598 - C5-0045/2000 - 1999/0240(CNS))
Thirdly, the need to develop the employment side of growth, even though I am aware, as Mr van Dam just said, that the prime responsibility is that of the Member States, and that, when we speak of the responsibility of Member States, and indeed of the usefulness or effectiveness of this regional policy, we must clearly establish what sort of period we are working in.
We have not done this so far, and this is something you ought to be instrumental in changing.
I believe that it will be possible to find a definitive solution to this question as part of the process of resolving the issue of democratic control of Europol, and that this solution will encourage and reinforce institutional cooperation between all parties involved.
I should like the vote on the Community EQUAL initiative to be postponed because we need a bit more time to negotiate an important point.
Therefore, the report allows them to be members of political parties and to be members of political bodies affiliated to their parties.
At the beginning of this decade we must foresee how our institutions will develop internationally by its end, and notably where we fit into international monetary bodies, where we fit into UN agencies and so on.
In addition to the objectives it is working towards, the strong point of the Community initiative INTERREG for the 2000-2006 programming period lies in its added value from the viewpoint of what is now the imminent enlargement of the European Union to include new Eastern European and Mediterranean countries.
In this respect, the ALTENER programme will be able to create new incentives and smooth the way for investment, and help us to realise our ambition, in the interests of environmental protection, the economy and creating new jobs.
Apart from that, I could refer to any customers, any sector, as customers, and thereby have a highly destructive effect on social fields.
In the meantime, I approve and encourage this clearly expressed desire in your communication.
The proposed change will make the systems more effective, both in terms of inputs and in terms of measured and accountable outcomes.
It is his first report here in plenary.
After all, we find ourselves in a situation of historic importance, that is to say, we are negotiating or are on the point of taking up negotiations with 12 States, and together we have reached a stage at which closer European integration may be a reality in the not too distant future.
Will you write to me before the next plenary with that information?
Where the scheme falters is in the enforcement of existing legislation.
We should no longer be worried that the agenda for the IGC will be restricted.
Your Commission consists of the only 20 people in the EU who can propose that the quantity of legislation should be reduced.
But all exhibitions must be carried out in a way that do not interfere with the orderly running of Parliament.
Large design margins are being provided in order to ensure safe operation of the plant according to the environmental conditions of the site.
Mr President, the majority of the borders, which have divided Europe for centuries, were artificially created, separating single geographic spaces and creating serious disparities in terms of balanced development and cohesion.
Once again, there is active participation from groups from the private, public and voluntary sectors which suggest how best particular funding can be spent so as to help different local job creation projects within this region.
Some of these risks were due to an inadequate awareness of the risks inherent in such transportation.
Amongst these, firstly, is the fact that, despite trying to modernise Articles 81 and 82, Article 81 and not Article 82 carries exclusive weight.
This is exactly the point which Mr Swoboda and also other Members made: fear of modernisation, globalisation, and the individual losing his own sense of safety and security.
You gave consideration to important questions of principle in your programme.
First of all, I would like to remind you of the function of the INTERREG Community initiative, founded on the principle of transnationality and innovation.
Of course, this objective cannot be used to justify irrational or arbitrary measures, but it does mean that action can still be taken even in situations where the science is unclear.
The first is greater transparency.
According to our information, the decision on the selection of a bidder has not been taken yet.
The Commission in Brussels responded to the victims' cries for help with a shrugging of shoulders.
This has been compounded, so some who advise me believe, by the Rules of Procedure in the French courts which make it well nigh impossible for non-French nationals to proceed against the French Government.
The European budget is effectively sourced from VAT and on the basis of GDP, especially now that the Community preference system has been abandoned and the multiplication of free trade areas has put paid to customs duties and the common agricultural levy, which had already been cut back drastically by the Generalised System of Preferences.
Indeed, we are talking about criminal law, the area where resistance that national States put up to communitisation is, and will be, fierce.
This debate on the van Hulten report brings to a close one of the most traumatic periods for the European institutions since their creation in 1957.
In this respect, I am pleased to see that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has adopted one of my amendments calling on the Commission to devote a specific chapter in its next report on cohesion to the special case of the most remote regions and, more specifically, to consideration of the impact of the measures shortly to be adopted under new Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
At the same time, it also represents a quantum leap in qualitative terms, and a logical and vital step in the development of the Union, in the wake of the establishment of the internal market, the introduction of the single currency and the launching of a common foreign and security policy.
I am very pleased with the level of support offered by your House to the Commission in establishing these guidelines, which have been submitted to the Member States for information when establishing their own programmes.
What is left of the stripped vehicle also requires to be processed adequately.
For all these reasons I voted most decidedly in favour of the resolution before this House on the formation of the government in Austria.
We need to provide alternative answers, otherwise episodes such as those seen in Seattle will be repeated over and over and will come to hamper one of Europe' s positive roles in history.
However, we should not condemn Mr Haider for ambition.
Lastly, I would like to state once again that the Commission intends to be in the pole position in presenting proposals for implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The problem of overwork highlighted by the Commission is not a sufficient reason for making radical changes to the legal system.
It would be very difficult for those who propose a 'yes' vote in any such future treaty to win the support of the Irish people if we lose our right to have our nominee to the European Commission.
I passionately defend Europe' s heritage of human rights and the rule of law.
We shall thus, in the course of the next five years, have a tool perfectly suited to developing clear, well-structured and, I am sure, successful measures in order to promote the cultural sector.
Your action programme and your objectives are reserved, even silent, specifically on the stimulation of public investment which is needed.
All the same, there is one point on which we are in conflict.
We have great confidence in the Portuguese Presidency' s ability to bring this task to a successful conclusion, and indeed great expectations thereof. Portugal is a small country, but being a small country is no reason why one may not have great ambitions.
Europe must prove - in the Balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security, peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage.
In the French version that becomes 'entreprises pharmaceutiques et organisations scientifiques' .
You will know that there are currently two preliminary issues before the Court of Justice, both brought by German courts, which question the feasibility of applying 81(1) without being able to apply 81(3).
The ECSC Treaty is due to expire shortly.
In yesterday' s debate in the European Parliament some Members of this Parliament expressed worry that we were interfering in the internal affairs of a Member State.
Madam President, Austria awaits a heavy responsibility.
We will carefully study the planned White Papers and will participate constructively in the work begun or promised.
It also has something to do with the newly awoken self-consciousness of this Parliament.
(Parliament rejected the request) President.
Without a successful European economy we cannot meet the challenges ahead, particularly of enlargement.
My own view as a former development minister is that these issues should be mainstreamed themselves and tackled at the heart of training and not turned into a sort of optional add-on.
I might add that all rational political campaigning in my own country, Denmark, takes it for granted that, when we enlarge the circle of EU countries to include the envisaged huge number of new Member States and when we in that way extend the breadth of the Union, we cannot at the same time pursue further integration in depth, that is to say engage in a more intensive qualitative integration towards a United States of Europe.
But we also recognise that some of the practices are outdated.
At the moment, the Court of First Instance has to wait a very long time for its judgements to be translated.
In those circumstances, consideration should be given to what is likely to produce the best result.
I would also like to thank Mrs Terrón i Cusí for having asked the question which has given rise to the first annual debate of this parliamentary term on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, and to thank all the Members who, in their various committees, have actively participated in preparing this annual debate. I would also like to thank the representatives of the national parliaments and of civil society.
Parliament will have a key part to play in this debate.
One area though is extremely important, and this House must be involved in it: namely scrutiny.
It is for the public, therefore, that we are developing the area of freedom, security and justice.
My specific question concerns the problem of homelessness and whether a new presidency could take a new initiative to try to overcome some of the difficulties the President-in-Office alluded to with regard to support at intergovernmental level.
The responsibility for these cars lies with the manufacturer.
Mr President, the directive on end-of-life vehicles is certainly a milestone in the improvement of the environment in Europe.
This is because the institutional framework within which Europe will operate in the future is a foundation of European integration and is therefore a matter of the greatest national importance for every one of the Union' s Member States.
I would like once again to thank all the speakers, and also, especially, the Vice-President, Mr Provan, for his magnificent work throughout this debate, particularly during the conciliation procedure, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Industry and, also, above all, the rapporteur, Mrs Ahern, and all the Members who have participated in this work.
I have noticed how the principle of a necessary culture at European organisational level has been firmly asserted, but there are few opportunities to address all the requests that the European States will make.
The question before us now is what can the Commission do to provide more practical support for his Holiness, the Dalai Lama' s, proposal for a peaceful solution to the Tibet affair?
The problem is with Danish nationals or other nationals residing outside Denmark.
The debate is closed.
Young, creative individuals must be made to feel an attachment to the countryside. If they all leave then nothing much will go on there any more.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
It is far too prescriptive.
And there will not be less funds available than in the current period either; there will be more.
Margarine and a few kilos of paint which, in principle, do not present risks, led to a genuine disaster.
When we have a crisis we have to clearly identify in advance that if there is a problem, those responsible are liable.
Indeed, they were still subject to endless bureaucratic immigration procedures of the Member States where a service had to be provided.
This loss is unjustified in a region whose main activities have been ruined by free-trade Europe.
With what aim?
This is an issue which, as you will understand, will have to be addressed at IGC level and is an issue that only a Special European Council can authorise the Portuguese Presidency to pursue, because this kind of issue falls outside the institutional framework in which the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference will take place.
But all exhibitions are in fact looked at first by the so-called Comart committee.
I would therefore like once again to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Langen, on his work, to thank the speakers and, of course, to acknowledge the actions of Vice-President Provan throughout the conciliation procedure, who contributed efficiently to the achievement of a positive result.
In my opinion, we now have to make a significant and urgent effort to confront new problems, also deriving from American legislation, which emphasise the safety of the transport of dangerous goods in the maritime sector.
We run the risk of delegating issues relating to the same offences which will then be punished in different ways.
My group has debated this matter and considers that, given the current situation of the whole process of market integration and deregulation in such a sensitive area, it is appropriate that Parliament makes an initial statement, regardless of any action it may take in the future, so that Commissioner Bolkestein may take good note and in order to guide next week' s debate.
The problem is not Mr Kouchner but the legal basis on which he is working, namely Resolution 1244.
We will support the motion for a resolution in support of this study, but we simply insist that, as this motion for a resolution points out, it is by means of liberalisation and opening up at an international level that we will achieve economic progress, both on the level of states and on a general level.
Straight away I should like to express my thanks to the rapporteurs from the committees, from all the committees, but also to the speakers for the groups and to each and every one of you for the quality of your speeches and the great interest they express with regard to these two initiatives.
Madam President, I would like to make it very clear that, above all, the Commission has absolute respect for the decisions of this Parliament and, amongst those, the decision establishing its agenda.
We would particularly like to stress that there must be balanced representation between men and women in all of these bodies.
In the meantime, I should like to observe a minute' s silence, as a number of Members have requested, on behalf of all the victims concerned, particularly those of the terrible storms, in the various countries of the European Union.
I am thinking, for example, of the idea that these guidelines are not specific enough in their recommendations.
Madame President, the people of Austria have spoken by electing Herr Haider to their Parliament.
Madame President, my group, the EDD, and especially my party, are very concerned by this debate.
Mr President, one of the key aspects which have been mentioned is, to my mind, the rapporteur' s proposal for the standing committee on standards in public administration.
Some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road, which entered into force on 1 January 1997, contains a number of transitional provisions which are only valid for a limited period of time, the term of validity being linked to the completion of specific standardisation work by the CEN, that is the European Committee for Standardisation.
These programmes promoted cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation within the European Union by encouraging balanced development of the Community area.
A federal and centralist EU which intervenes more and more in the government of the Member States is in actual fact less well placed for enlargement.
We have no doubts about this and we think that the Members taking part in this preparatory group will have an opportunity to raise this issue again.
He will join us and speak as soon as he arrives.
This is no longer tolerable.
They were stripped naked and dragged along the floor by their hair, surrounded by a horde of state security police.
However, the aim of an approach which really sought to reduce discrimination effectively and in the long term would have to be people' s self-determination.
Madam President, as a Padanian taxpayer, I have already experienced the vice-like grip of the taxman and former Prime Minister of Italy, Mr Prodi, since Padania is liable to Italy for its taxes as well.
Schengen has been incorporated, as we said earlier, into the acquis, but it has been done with very little transparency.
I shall convey your wish that the rapporteurs should be quickly appointed for the files you mentioned to my colleagues in the Bureau and to the appropriate committees.
The first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies.
Subject: Article 13 TEU and Employment The draft Commission Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation gives exemption to religious organisations (Art. 4.2).
Does the Council believe that it is permissible to consolidate future overfishing which violates the originally established TAC of 33 000 metric tonnes per year, given the current evidence for the critical state of anchovy stocks?
Mr President, you said during last week' s information session that it was your view that any future EU food agency should not be located on the periphery, but you did not mention what that periphery was.
I therefore welcome with open arms the percentage levels for re-use and recycling which have been proposed by the Council.
I can gauge its importance for my country' s international reputation.
At a time when the tax burden on the work factor is increasing throughout Europe and internationally, we must consider how we can achieve efficient taxation of investment income and that includes the question of how to tax short-term financial transactions.
There is no room for amendments.
The Arab world' s criticism of Israel has been founded upon the same sort of anti-colonialism as, for example, Algeria' s fight for freedom against France.
All provisions, i.e. issues relating to entry into the EU and to the law pertaining to residence rights, should be regarded as ancillary to this freedom to provide services.
This is undoubtedly a complex issue, and one where we should like to see the Commission informing us of the latest development in the matter, particularly in terms of the capacity of the economies involved in the accession process to comply with competition rules and, as far as state aid is concerned, the need, in all probability, to have specific rules on state aid used to assist restructuring of their sectors.
All of this is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore to be greatly welcomed.
This cannot be a good thing in a European Union where we are ever mindful of employment.
You may draw your own conclusions.
Mr President, for the Socialist Group I can say we will be supporting the draft opinion put forward by the rapporteurs on behalf of the Constitutional Affairs Committee.
I would like to say, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, that in its judgement of 5 October 1999, the European Court of Justice ruled that this transfer, which was approved, was in accordance with the principles laid down in Council Regulation 37/60/92 and, specifically, with its Article 9(1), which stipulates that Member States may exchange all or part of the fishing rights that they have been allocated.
It would certainly be unwise for my fellow Members in the major groups of the federalist tendency to seek to make the European Parliament unpopular in this way by creating a liability shared between the owner and the manufacturer.
You have seen yourself as the guardian of the Treaties, and that is indeed your role.
The Commission report confirms that, with the exception of Germany, state aid to businesses is increasing.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, could I furthermore point out that none of the speakers this evening has drawn a link between the Tobin tax on the one hand and the functioning of the European Union on the other?
She could not be here because she was arrested yesterday morning during an anti-nuclear demonstration in Glasgow.
Are we doing enough?
Structural support is said to cause subsidy-dependence.
If the system of delivering cars to treatment facilities without any cost is applied, it will also transpire that the cost of processing will come down considerably.
We do not agree with this type of tax because its application, in the event that it could happen, would not achieve the aims which Mr Tobin presented at the time and which the Left in this House wishes to revive.
Mr President, with your permission I should like to begin by expressing my admiration for the way in which you executed the quick changeover of the chairmanship just now during the debate.
When I launched the White Paper last week I said that the shopping trolley is one of the most potent weapons on the face of the earth.
An efficient procedure for issuing cards implies that companies which provide cross-border services can also exercise their rights in concrete terms on the basis of the internal market.
This is an illustration of empty pledges not necessarily leading to good results.
We should be in no doubt that conflicts may arise in the future too, but we can now show that we do not use the precautionary principle arbitrarily.
So, Mr President, I will walk away from this debate, for which I am very grateful to Parliament, in the knowledge that we have the European Parliament' s intellectual and political support, which appears to come from all sides of the House, for competition policy, its basic appreciation for the work the Commission is carrying out and its confidence in our ability to continue to deliver in the future.
(The House rose and observed a minute' s silence)
To this end, Europe as a whole, and each Member State individually, will have to make optimum use of all available resources and capacities, including the Structural Funds.
Small and medium-sized businesses, above all, need to take part in the distribution of these funds.
I would have liked to hear your discussion with the Austrian President, Mr Poettering. We are well aware that he is very embarrassed today at the dirty deal that government has done in forming such an alliance.
These initiatives must also involve the participation of local authorities and local communities in an effort to identify where best European Structural Funds should be spent.
That is why I have called for a roll-call vote on this.
To set my fellow Members' minds at ease and to reassure them, I have tabled an amendment to the resolution in which we simply take note of the fact that the Commission, in its communication, undertakes to make significant efforts to increase women' s participation in Community research programmes, which is, after all, a praiseworthy goal.
Now, a sound common position submitted by the Council is in danger of being changed for the worse from an environmental point of view here in Parliament.
We are not discussing the fact that although every EU law is only ever decided on centrally, it is precisely the adaptation phase where we will experience a lack of legal certainty.
This is the purpose of these guidelines.
Mr President, only a strengthened Europe can cope with enlargement.
What I do not understand is why this has to come at a price, as it were, that is, of having to dispense with independent - and I stress, independent - prior approval.
Can I just make it clear that we have no commitment to a corpus juris here, no commitment to a federal European public prosecutor.
Less than two years is not much time if we bear in mind also that the fishing policy is anomalous with regard to the internal market regulations and that such anomalies should be resolved within the framework of this reform process.
A Council regulation that is directly applicable law must also be observed by the regional governments.
We cannot, and we do not, support in any way the sentiments and politics of Herr Haider and we deplore his references to the Third Reich.
If the Council had worked as quickly as Mr Brok then we would certainly be a great deal further on.
The EU should be prepared to meet that competition.
In my opinion, this directive is unacceptable for this reason.
This will be possible with action on the part of governments, and such decentralisation of higher education will be an unquestionably useful policy in evening out development.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of a long road.
Mrs Angelilli, thank you. I have taken note of your comment.
Naturally the Court will be able to give its considered opinion on the proposed changes to the Financial Regulation but it is useful to recall Mr Karlsson' s comments to this House last month. "The Commission's internal control" he said "is not forceful enough in preventing incorrect operation.
Mr President, amongst the various issues being dealt with in this joint debate, I would like to comment on the one mentioned by Mr Berenguer, that is to say, the modernisation of competition policy, which is the subject of the Commission' s White Paper.
We should also aim for minimum quantities of heavy metals, as well as of other dangerous substances and materials.
They want to see the politics of success and believe that this is how any politically mature citizen could expect to be served
It is prepared to act on proposals by the Commission in any area for which there is Community competence.
It is clear that we need to see a change in the Financial Regulation.
After all, the very bad experiences so far with disciplinary proceedings show all too clearly how necessary it is that we carry out reforms.
The European Central Bank is keeping very quiet about the staggering rates of return on financial assets, yet it never misses an opportunity to remind us that any wage increase should remain below the rate of increase in productivity.
Question No 38 by (H-0805/99):
Brussels should make decisions on fewer matters and hand over more decisions to the people, the regions and the Member States. The only decisions which should remain with Brussels are those concerning cross-border issues which the national parliaments can no longer legislate on effectively.
This means that there must be a comprehensive partnership between local authorities and national governments with regard to how these funds are to be spent.
This has meant a reduction in the number of amendments - from over 100 in committee to 22 for the plenary - which has also created numerous opportunities for compromises.
We feel this is relatively dangerous, but all the same we shall vote in favour of it because we recognise that the Commission cannot do everything.
I totally agree with Mr von Boetticher and Mr Schulz' s remarks, and truly believe that the European Parliament and the Court of Justice need to be more involved in the area of freedom, security and justice, without having to derogate from their own powers.
This can be prevented if a European social model is drawn up and if results are achieved in all these concrete areas.
Some Member States have been in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and cut national regional funds when regional aid coming via the Union has been increased.
My third and final point relates to the external activities of the Union in the field of immigration and asylum.
For the reasons set out above, I cannot see a good reason for introducing a European Tobin tax.
Mr Gollnisch, excuse me, you have one minute.
Where this aspect is concerned, we cannot accept any weakening of the Council' s position regarding the date from which the regulations are to come into force.
Nevertheless, technical assistance is necessary.
Mr President, the report under discussion in the House today is doubtless of great importance.
Madam President, this matter is far too serious to be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure at this time.
There is nothing new in your work programme.
There is no complacency, no fragility and no ambiguity about any of that at all.
Thirdly, we broadly agree on the general guidelines provided they do not deviate from the comments we have made so far.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a five-year programme is an extremely important undertaking, and this is why I preferred that you be given the unabridged text of the speech, which is available in four languages.
In addition, I should particularly like to emphasise the point which offers an approach towards creating an integrated and environmentally friendly development strategy.
I would also like to consider the paradoxical situation we have with regard to emergency aid.
But how are we to succeed when the resources available are limited and the credibility of our institutions is not very high?
What is being done may well be very important, but it is still not sufficient.
I say they have a right to solidarity.
This is an approach, Mr President, which the European Union can develop with regard to the International Maritime Organisation.
I would like Mr Barón Crespo, who made the request, to speak to propose it. That is, if he so wishes, of course.
Madam President, let us indeed tax money speculation: it does not produce anything new.
Finally, I would like to draw attention to the position of the Central and Eastern European countries.
We here in Parliament want to hold a serious discussion about the future development in this policy area on the basis of a programme.
We must work more rapidly towards achieving the targets stipulated in the White Paper for renewable energy sources, as this would bring about a massive reduction in greenhouse gases.
Does this permit legislation also to be passed concerning national laws on transparency and not only in connection with the three institutions of the European Union referred to there?
The integration of the maritime border into strand A would finally allow the western periphery to be recognised as a unique and important economic area which is confronted by the 'continentalisation' of the European Union.
In the final analysis, we feel that proposals such as the proposal for a European Public Prosecutor demonstrate an inability to conceive of a Europe in anything other than a centralised and hierarchical form, organised around a superstate.
Today's decision not to renew the embargo is extremely dangerous considering the situation there.
The credibility of the efforts we make here in Parliament to employ our finances properly stands and falls with the efforts we make to deal with such scandals and prevent them from arising in the future.
According to the Rules of Procedure, you are not required to reply.
Mr President, Commissioner, my thanks go to the rapporteur for handling this very important report, because developments in the social and economic situation will decide to what extent the citizens of Europe will judge that we have been successful in our work.
In fact perhaps as little, the lawyers tell us, as 20% or one-fifth of the cost. That is not unreasonable.
It should not be for each Member State, but for you and your staff, Commissioner, to decide whether these lightweight construction vehicles (and there is also talk of 3-litre vehicles) should receive preferential treatment.
Mr President, I would like to thank my Socialist colleagues, mainly in the committees on transport and the environment, who have not forgotten that this disaster also affects the fishing industry.
We will be able to use the discharge procedure for 1998 to check whether efficiency, transparency and accountability, and likewise a sincere willingness to provide information, are being displayed vis-à-vis the discharge authority.
This is an exercise in sovereignty, and in democracy for each population and every individual, but to this end it is vital for all parties in the conflict to have the courage to strive for peace and rights, and to recognise the other as its partner and not as its subject to whom concessions must be given.
I would like to say that in Italy, considerable headway has been made in this sector; we are perhaps the first in Europe to have regulations encouraging us to take end-of-life vehicles off the market, but in our country the average age of cars on the road is rather high, and we therefore have serious concerns over the problems that this directive could entail for the market.
We already plan to reform the existing disciplinary procedures to ensure thoroughness, fairness, consistency and professionalism.
Portugal should not take a leaf out its predecessor' s book.
President Prodi, today you have presented the Commission' s five-year programme, and it has many objectives that we endorse.
They are all tarred with the same dirty brush!
We oppose the excessive control the central administration of the Union and its Member States exercises and we are calling for a reduction in the bureaucracy that has taken root in the drafting and implementation of programmes.
ALTENER
(Applause)
The Commission will need the full support of Parliament if we are to achieve our ambitions on schedule.
That is one of the political conclusions that we must draw from the grave decision of 14 Member States yesterday virtually to freeze relations with a partner.
A5-0073/1999 by Mr Langen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission Report on the implementation in 1998 of Commission Decision No. 2496/96/ECSC of 18 December 1996 establishing Community rules for State aid to the steel industry (Steel Aid Code). [COM(1999) 94 - C5-0104/1999 - 1999/2107(COS)].
Mr President, we all recall that Parliament decided to postpone the discharge for the 1997 financial year pending commitments from the new European Commission regarding internal reform.
Amended again as such by the Schroedter report, they are a step in the right direction.
Between 1998 and 1999, loyalists assaulted and shot 123 people, while republicans assaulted and shot 93 people.
According to the report issued by the Court of Auditors on the year 1998, this is not an imagined risk.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mrs Schroedter for an excellent report. She has gone into the issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the amendments that have been tabled regarding this report.
That the markets for production factors, including the labour market, operate flexibly?
If you ratify ...
The market favours the short term and immediate profits.
The Commission has also been closely associated with the production of the recent report published by the United Nations environment programme - Balkan Task Force.
It has to be conceded that the EU has already aided, I would say quite magnificently, the development of poor countries.
Alternatively, it could accept the offer of an agreement amongst the institutions, in order to move forward in another way.
And if we were to speak of serious and persistent breaches, then perhaps we could mention some Member States, such as Italy and France, first and third, respectively, in the list of countries condemned by the Council of Europe and the Strasbourg court.
For me, equality certainly does not mean that both parties to a marriage work the whole time and hand the children over to a nanny, alias an immigrant who has not had the opportunity to obtain another job.
That cost would inevitably be passed on to the price and hence to the buyers of new cars.
That is all to the good.
That is the entire programme for the next five years on the question of internal security, freedom, citizens' rights and judicial cooperation.
This too is a particular desire of my group.
The IRA terrorists have not given up any of their weapons, nor have the loyalist terrorists, yet the police are being forced into a position where they will not have the power to resist the terrorist community.
For example, if one product has been approved, similar products should also be approved.
You said in your summary, Commissioner Prodi, that liberalisation, competitiveness, keeping inflation low, innovation, science and technology are central for the future success of the European economy and creating jobs.
In offering this explanation of my vote, therefore, I wished to express my deep dissatisfaction and my deep concern.
We therefore demand that once the Treaty expires, steel aid must be regulated by a Council regulation according to Article 94, for that is the only way to create the necessary legal validity and clarity.
This improvement has been achieved with fresh funds, as we said at the time, and it has been achieved while safeguarding this Parliament' s prerogatives and competences.
Unrestricted liability on the part of manufacturers would also be in danger of creating a situation in which the market for used car parts disappears, for manufacturers would have a greater responsibility to sell new parts.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the committee for supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
They need to see the political dimension working, to see that officials accept their responsibilities and that there is communication with the citizens.
However, it must be "europeanised" taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
These amendments also fit in with this Parliament's view that social exclusion is a serious issue needing constructive action.
I think that this 25% should not only be enforced but that it should also be ensured that more inspections take place. So this 25% should be increased.
This does not impose disproportionate costs upon manufacturers. Far from it.
However, they could not apply Article 81(3), which, to a certain extent, prevented the coherent application of Article 81(1).
You just have to think of all the resolutions concerning Fort Europa, Schengen, Eurodac etc.
This is the kind of good practice we would like to see extended across the EU in terms of communication and publicity.
Urgent change is required today.
We can see who is prepared to vote for a retrospection which is of doubtful legality, which would be a costly burden to every future car buyer and a devastating blow for the European car industry.
Although the Steel Aid Code is expressed in a very clear way, the Commission has authorised granting steel companies aid which is not covered by the categories stipulated by the Code.
Mr President, firstly I would like to express my very sincere thanks, not only for the initiatives of the different groups, of Mrs Grossetête and the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats, but also for the initiatives of Mr Wurtz and the Confederal Group of the United Left/Nordic Green Left, who proposed this debate, which has led to a positive and important discussion.
I believe that the first one was implicitly recognised by the Commissioner in his speech when he wondered whether these catastrophes are natural or not.
I think however that you will all recognise your own comments.
It is all the work which is going to be carried out together, under your guidance particularly, in the course of these few months, which is extremely important.
The Commission' s programme shows a disturbing complacency about the completion of the internal market.
However, the Commission will have the possibility of seeing that the opinions of the Authority on scientific matters are enforced by way of passing legislation which is the function of the Commission, Parliament and Council.
To this day, we in Europe remain in the privileged position of having the Gulf Stream, and the Gulf Stream still does its stuff.
We are and will remain among those fighting against Europeanist dictatorship. We call on all the people of Europe to resist your monstrous projects.
Resumption of the session
This constitutes a good example, therefore.
I think your intervention may clarify various points that were raised.
It is not enough simply to carry out spot checks once the money has been spent.
However, this can be seriously questioned as the manufacturers will pass on all the costs to consumers and acquire for themselves a state-sanctioned monopoly on recycling.
Regarding URBAN, I should like to conclude with the implementation procedure and mention, first of all, the selection procedure.
In promoting cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation, this cross-disciplinary instrument is the very incarnation of a regional policy on the European scale intended to encourage harmonious and balanced development of the Community territory.
These days, someone who lives in an old people' s home is accommodated within the social field.
Mr President, for British Conservatives the efficient and uniform application of European competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the European Union.
I hear - whether it is true or not I do not know - that the Serbs are even continuing to operate a mine in the Serbian sector of Kosovo.
This mission is being conducted under the auspices of the United Nations and we cannot have a situation where the European Union is the only one to fulfil its obligations.
I hope to see if something can be put in place to get us a faster response from the court process.
We have had our problems and we recognised difficulties but there was not a situation where this bureaucratic Commission was mistrusted, doubted and feared by the citizens of the European Union because they were mismanaging our affairs.
My group strongly welcomes the IGC and will be contributing to this Treaty reform process to the maximum possible extent.
I notice that you said this particular issue was not currently on your agenda for the next IGC but if some people wished it, you would consider it.
Mr President, public institutions must not accept only the economic criterion.
There are, however, two considerations which must certainly be dealt with within this text.
Nonetheless, if the opportunity for Member States to determine the areas, within the scope of this initiative, remains available, then the Commission will have to ensure a certain focusing of resources and prioritise projects in the less prosperous areas.
There can be no democracy without a living parliament.
Incomprehensibly, trade union representatives are also members of committees on competition, and I would not be surprised if union members were already members of OLAF, thereby placing this institution which should, at least formally, guarantee its impartiality, at great risk.
However, if it is a union of culture, civilisation and participation, then it becomes a living thing.
This is not policy; it is life' s simple logic.
We cannot have a decisive and fair Europe unless it is also open and democratic.
In this respect, all ideas deserve to be considered, including the Tobin tax which is important, just like other forms of transaction which may be envisaged.
Commissioner, I am asking these questions as a defender of the internal market and I hope that, in this sense, we are all partners and that the discussion between these partners does not remain sterile but can bear fruit.
Madam President, the Presidency has already declared the result of the vote.
For this reason, it is essential that the Council' s debates on the future of Europol and Eurojust should be conducted in parallel, so that conclusions can be reached in parallel also.
We Socialists applaud the Commission for wanting to fight against social exclusion and poverty.
In order to ensure that the Treaty is upheld and that we sustain what was described as the Community machine, we are following the course of action which was set down in our statement yesterday.
This is a positive move and we welcome it, but I believe we need to equip the individuals concerned with an instrument and with strategy planning for what they are actually going to have to prepare, for elections are planned for the autumn.
Unfortunately, in the issues covered by the resolutions on future subjects for revisions to the Treaty on European Union, nothing has so far been stated about the need to review Article 7, which deals with suspending a State in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the "founding" principles of the Union, as laid down in Article 6.
We think that this is one of the most fundamental issues within the concept of multifunctionality which is now associated with changes in the common agricultural policy, and the EAGGF, of course, has a crucial role to play in this.
The citizens are right to ask: "do our regions now count amongst those which are lost forever?"
I adopt and wholeheartedly support this political objective that the seven most remote regions of the Union are actually active frontiers of the Union, even if, or precisely because, they are remote and located in other regions of the world where we must bring our influence and our action to bear.
Actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the EU and also create stronger links with EU candidate countries and the outside world are important.
We should do everything within our power to force the regions into a situation where they have to compete with each other.
We must support initiatives increasing the availability and improving the distribution and management of the region's very scarce water resources.
If your ruling is that I cannot give an explanation of vote, I accept that but with reservations.
We feel that at present the central issues about convening an Intergovernmental Conference to amend the Treaties are far more important than the controversy taking place here about the size of the agenda. They are also more important than the controversy over the appropriateness or otherwise of formulating proposals for new issues to be covered, and more important than the controversy over the extent of Parliament' s participation in it.
The fifteen sets of national provisions will gradually be abandoned, permitting greater use of Community law, which a higher number of protagonists will be able to apply.
But I would like to point out that the concern with depleted uranium weapons is about the way in which they are used.
In its numerous debates and its reports so far the European Parliament has openly supported the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
These are really the people who deserve our solidarity.
This does not happen all that often and it is gratifying, especially as the LEADER programmes have been key elements in the Union' s rural development policy.
After all, there is no longer mention of a European Public Prosecutor, rather, for legal reasons it has now become an independent, European authority, or "body" to quote Mrs Theato.
I am very concerned about certain amendments from Parliament which bring the absolutely basic pillars of the present proposal into question.
We will need the European Public Prosecutor' s Office for this, which will see to it that there are clear legal guarantees, also for suspects.
We therefore welcome increased resources for OLAF so that we can investigate any suspicions more efficiently.
If you apply the existing principle of digressive proportionality, six seats for every state and then one more seat for every half a million inhabitants, you already have the situation where Luxembourg with 367,000 people has more Members in this Chamber than Wales, which is a partly self-governing region of the United Kingdom.
As you know, it is up to each State to redistribute part of the total appropriation.
The strength of the FPÖ can be traced back to the weakness of the previous government and in this the Austrian socialists must bear the main responsibility.
You are unclear about this in your White Paper.
It is not, therefore, the case that one must begin with a cost-benefit analysis.
Do you think that, when we legislate about chemicals, we should say that we are ignoring those chemicals which are already on the market and that we are legislating only for what is to be produced in the future?
Many of the report' s conclusions, however, are cause for concern, at least for our group.
The recent negotiations are already an important step towards a permanent peace in the Middle East.
As indicated by the rapporteur, the effects of the structural measures, on the other hand, are minimal as far as employment is concerned.
Its aim was to combat the forgetfulness and the evil in today' s society which takes the form of xenophobia and neo-nazism.
It is fostered by a fair appraisal of our assets.
Certainly there are those who would argue that we should give law-making powers to such an authority.
In this respect, we should heed the words of von Eieck, and doubtless also those of the great Italian liberal Bruno Leoni, who warned precisely against the risks of an abnormal increase in anti-competition policies.
We must use the Berlin Summit aid appropriations and we must change the forestry policy implemented in most countries in the Union. That, however, is another problem altogether.
Today the republicans are no longer represented in most local parliaments.
My Group believes that since a parliament is meant to listen, debate and reflect, there can be no justification whatsoever for this delay and we believe that, if the Commission is ready to do so, we still have time to re-establish the original agreement between Parliament and the Commission and proceed in a manner which fulfils our duty to our fellow citizens.
Similarly, it cannot be right for just a few Member States willing to provide help to bear the entire burden of refugee misery on our continent.
If I were to go to the other extreme, as few hurdles as possible that is, then I would run the risk of failing to produce any legislation whatsoever in the course of this procedure because the Member States would not sign up to this directive.
I refer in particular to the Council and to the inertia of the Member States in implementing the decisions they had jointly made.
Having said this, I still have concerns about the proposed decentralisation.
Those who own the monetary assets are currently amassing huge fortunes which are again screaming out to be reinvested.
The main idea ought to be that each administration takes responsibility for its own supervision.
This is why, I urge you to support the amendments tabled by Bernd Lange. These amendments will be supported by the Group of the Party of European Socialists since they effectively reconcile all the interests involved - economic interests and environmental constraints - while granting Member States the freedom to select the means to implement these constraints, since these amendments envisage that the systems in place in the Members States, and some of them work perfectly well, will be able to continue to operate.
There is, as yet, no European Court case law on Efterløn, but it could validly be argued that the residence requirement is incompatible with general clauses now in force banning discrimination on the grounds of nationality.
Mr President, I would like to start by extending my compliments to the rapporteur, Mr van Hulten, on his first report.
It is therefore easy to understand the public' s lack of interest, given the construction of Europe which is going on behind their back and in areas which are not really of concern to them.
After having restricted, on its own initiative, its participation in the IGC to two minor seats, Parliament is now giving up the right to add to the agenda for this IGC.
Family farming is now recognised as central to the European agricultural model and is an objective to be addressed, certainly within the time-scale of Agenda 2000.
Dimitrakopoulos and Leinen Report (A5-0018/2000)
Our opinion is that it is vital to contribute to setting up an administration in Kosovo and that it is by no means absurd to contribute directly to the payment of public employees in this region.
The challenges are therefore immense. The integration of the border regions will be an essential element in the development of a future European regional development policy!
Competition policy must continue to be accorded central importance and will not be renationalised because this would jeopardise the internal market and Europe as a business location in a global economy.
Like many of my colleagues, I am pleased that the European Parliament was able to safeguard this initiative.
It would be useful for the record of the House to state how people perceive what we have just done in the light of their own political analysis.
I often have the impression, unlike the country I come from - former East Germany - where economic competitiveness is prized above all else and competitiveness relating to managerial economics is disregarded, that very often the reverse is the case; society thinks almost exclusively in terms of managerial economics.
The voices in favour of its amendment were unanimous.
Thank you, Mr Davies.
Anyone who lets men happily climb the career ladder and worries only about childcare places without fighting against the way in which the work of reproduction is shared out unevenly has not - and unfortunately that includes women - understood the concept of mainstreaming!
We need technical testing of ships, that is obligatory technical testing every two years, and no ship to be operated without the accompanying certificate.
One of the issues that we may have to address over time is the question of the speed of response in such circumstance.
Today, we have been called on to choose, for the forthcoming decades, between a Europe that might be less prosperous but a beacon of peace and civilisation for the whole planet and a Europe that might be more wealthy, but where there is uncertainty over what the future might bring.
Moreover, Europe as a continent is a great deal more than just the fifteen EU Member States.
Remember that the Council of Ministers, absent again this evening from our debate, approved the 1997 discharge - not the 1996 - on the very day the Commission itself resigned on 15 March.
Mr President, Commissioner, in this minute and a half I should like, first of all, to congratulate Mrs Schroedter.
.
Therefore, Commissioner, we are relying on this interinstitutional dialogue to put the finishing touches to a reform which we are all hoping for and which we believe will lead us to a successful conclusion under your direction and with our cooperation.
I have been fighting for a European environmental coastguard service for almost ten years, here in Parliament.
However, I was disappointed with the nature of the proposal for the establishment of a European food authority in the recent White Paper.
The second point I would like to make is that we would have preferred it if the guidelines had been added to the regulation in the form of an annex, as we and Mrs McCarthy, as rapporteurs for the general regulation, had asked.
We will do all we can to help the process to a successful conclusion and to meet the obligations and challenges that will be created by that outcome.
In this respect I have observed a significant consensus in all the interventions.
We know full well that what you are doing, Commissioner, and that is, limiting yourself to giving us the hypothetical and remote possibility of benefiting from the Structural Funds of the new Objective 2 or from the provisional Objectives 2 or 5b.
Within the European Commission, the Directorate-General for Employment is responsible for implementation, while financial control is the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Financial Control, the Anti-Fraud Office and the European Court of Auditors.
(Applause)
I would hope that the same holds true for the proposal to reduce the minimum period of duration for a first posting to three months, and to be flexible in adapting the period of validity of the service provision card to the duration of the first posting.
From now on Europe must put its words into action if it wishes to show the world the scope of its rediscovered ambition.
I have listened to you very attentively Commissioner, and welcome with open arms the fact that you are intending to go and see for yourself the effects the catastrophe has had in France and in Germany.
Madam President, they say, where I come from, 'it' s three times for a Welshman' , and three times, as I think you will discover in the course of that debate, I signified my desire to respond very briefly to what has been an excellent, and on several occasions, a moving debate.
Meanwhile, we have to offer the Commission a vote of confidence.
I object to the fact that we are cutting back the time for Question Time; it is one of the few occasions when backbenchers have a chance to get their time on the floor and I do ask you to extend it to one and a half hours as is on the agenda.
Projects have often remained half-finished, and their efficiency has been drained by administration and bureaucracy.
But these days, we are witnessing the exact reverse before our very eyes.
The question is, furthermore, one of whether the two cases should be treated in the same way.
This special court in Luxembourg is necessary in order to build up broad expertise.
The directive remains in place.
Where brominated flame retardants are concerned, there may eventually be a ban, but it is important to say that the precautionary principle permits the whole spectrum of political measures and initiatives to be taken.
Moreover, I have been informed that the Commission has approved a report - today of all days - on the reform of the Commission which will be distributed for further consultation to the various institutions and also to our Parliament, I hope.
(Parliament gave its assent)Relating to Thursday:
I have decided, in the end, that the most remote regions, to which I attach particular importance, will be given special priority in the context of the transnational strand of INTERREG, with a cooperation strategy which will aim at improving their links with their neighbours and other Member State regions.
At present, we trust that the Commission will produce these sound proposals, but it is not a foregone conclusion that it will do so.
Mr President, I should very much like to thank the rapporteur for his splendid report.
Commissioner, I am quite familiar with the constraints imposed by the Treaties, but I believe that, it must be emphasised once again that the European economy is finding it hard to compete with the American economy, especially because of insufficiently open markets and a lack of genuine competition.
As this is an issue which has become important in the justice and home affairs programme, the presidency believes that it is worthwhile, bearing in mind the principles of Chapter VI of the Treaty, to explore suitable means of providing the European Parliament with improved information on the progress and conclusion of these negotiations under the United Nations Convention.
It has been a relative shock to our political leaders to find we must now take a share of the refugees that have been coming into the European Union for a long time.
We feel that it is important that the Commission takes account of the conclusions adopted by this Parliament, at least in spirit, because at this stage, it might seem as though what we are doing here is a useless exercise, and nothing but hot air.
That goes without saying, but it is something that will only work through in the medium and long term.
Now is not the time to isolate but to unite and to complete together the task of unifying Europe.
The White Paper also reflects the concerns of this Parliament which you have outlined to both President Prodi and myself on the numerous occasions we have debated food safety in this House since the Commission was appointed.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a formal commitment, not just words on paper.
In the same way, through the LEADER initiative, structural change in agriculture can be supported by creating new jobs in rural areas.
It is therefore noticeable that 'equality', 'gender' and 'women' are barely mentioned in 'Shaping the New Europe'.
In conclusion, I would ask the Commission to take these five points into account when establishing the conclusions on the four pillars because I believe that, for the European Union, maintaining the population in rural areas must be one of the priority objectives.
I think that this will have to be monitored closely because otherwise we will end up in that situation against which Mr Meijer has warned us so vehemently, to wit, that vested interests will emerge and that people will think that the money is theirs to spend.
Moreover, the manufacturers will not be financially accountable until 2006, when a good number of the existing vehicles will no longer be on the market.
I do not know what Syria and Israel will want or be able to do in reality, but I do know that our institution can do a lot and it is time that it attached the same importance to peoples' lives as it does to the ballasts of the cold, colourless, artificial neon bulbs in our lamps, which can illuminate houses but not the world in the third millennium.
The agricultural economy and agricultural regions have been irreparably damaged by the existing regional policy, which has had dramatic consequences on employment levels in rural areas and on the living conditions of farmers, particularly in the South.
Lastly, I would like to make some observations on the requests for additional information which have been addressed to us.
All the resolutions submitted express the sincere wish for greater European involvement in the peace process.
It has not, however, been possible to solve the problem of vehicles currently being used but which are already old and which cost far more to recycle.
You must understand that a presidency' s ability to reverse global social or economic trends during its six months in office is actually quite limited.
The answer to this is that we know very little about this.
However, even though the role of agriculture is not exclusive, it is still essential, not only to prevent economic and social disintegration and the creation of ghost towns, but also because farmers play a fundamental role in managing the land, in preserving biodiversity and in protecting the environment.
These findings form the basis of the European programmes to protect the Barents Sea, and that is why I would ask you to examine a draft letter setting out the most important facts and to make Parliament's position, as expressed in the resolutions which it has adopted, clear as far as Russia is concerned.
First of all, the port-state control, according to which 25% of all ships require inspection.
But the people asking the question need to know that not every instance of instability, as the Commissioner has just so impressively told us, is the result of speculation.
It is my hope that we will be able to achieve a lot of synergy with a little money.
I also look forward to the White Paper which will be available in February.
The legislative programme from the Commission ought at least, therefore, to be accompanied by as long a list of tasks which are to be referred back to the Member States and to the processes of popular democracy. Otherwise, the number of laws produced in Brussels will just keep on growing.
We think they should.
In this emergency, in this ordeal, we have seen a magnificent display of solidarity: local solidarity, national solidarity, and intergovernmental solidarity.
We need independent procedures and procedures involving public control.
Lastly, there is the desire expressed both in the Commission document and Mr Decourrière' s report of using INTERREG for peace and reconstruction in the Balkans: I do not think that the Structural Funds should be used to repair the damage which the Americans inflicted on Serbia during bombardments which were as criminal as they were ineffectual.
I am from the Social Committee and rapporteurs on our committee are always proud to receive 100 amendments because then they know that they have tabled an interesting topic.
I believe that this is a report for which cooperation between committees has worked very well, and the result, which we have received today, is moderate and thoughtful in a very delicate area.
I also fully endorse his findings, in which, in particular, he suggests increasing the number of consultants for judges at the Court of First Instance and providing the latter with its own translation service.
In addition to this one overture there is a second which we have already suggested to the Member States: greater financial flexibility between strand A and strand B. Thanks to these two overtures, especially the first, I can say that the Commission is willing to examine the case of Italian regions and regions of third countries around the Adriatic in order to promote the most appropriate cooperation under INTERREG, and with other instruments too, as soon as they become available.
I am glad to say to Mr van Hulten and Mr Haarder that the detailed recommendations on recruitment, training, appraisal and the appointment to management positions are very much in line with our own thinking and our own proposals.
It has been mainly used in the environmental field, but, of course also when it comes to human health.
What we cannot do, Commissioner - and I would like to end on this note - is to give way, and give ammunition, to those who regard the European institutions as the property of the great and the good, of the rich, and not of the citizen, or the small and medium business, which, in the worst case scenario - which will never become reality because the requisite measures will be applied to prevent it - will result in courts which make disparate judgements, very late, with no real possibility of control apart from what the French call "le parcours du combatant", that is to say, after Lord knows how many years, when the Court in Luxembourg passes judgement, a Court which we know to be inundated at the moment.
That will most certainly be the character of the change as honourable Members will see when they read the reform strategy document.
Of course, we need double-hulled vessels.
That is our role and this is the point of my question.
This is a very sad opportunity for Europe to renew its forestry heritage in line with the role that this plays in wildlife and nature conservation and in our economies.
On the other hand, districts which have not been affected by the storms will also suffer, as the National Forestry Office has decided to freeze cuts in forestation for four years.
Let me point out, in passing, that the Commission President, Mr Prodi, is also a Council member, and he has every intention of making use of this position and this role, alongside the Heads of State and Government, particularly during the final period.
As Mrs Terrón i Cusí said in her speech, 1999 was a year of great expectations in the field of justice and home affairs - an expectation realised with the coming into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, an expectation realised with the conclusions of the Tampere Council, and a fundamental expectation, as from this year, that will be realised in the form of specific actions.
We therefore, of course, support the European Parliament' s now giving the formal go-ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference.
We are contributing to programmes in the region which have some ecological impact.
This makes the large number of amendments and far too long a wish list of possible tasks all the more astonishing.
I would appreciate it if, on the close of this item of business, I might be allowed to give an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group.
Ireland, for generations, sent her sons and daughters to places of safety throughout the world, but now when the Celtic tiger is providing wealth and prosperity beyond our expectations, we are showing a very ugly side to our character. Racism in Ireland is endemic.
On the other hand, the Portuguese Presidency will continue, if and when the new WTO round begins within its term of office, which is by no means guaranteed, to ensure that the presence of Community production on international markets is strengthened. It will also continue to ensure a greater balance between exported Community farm products and preserving the multifunctional European agriculture to which I have just referred.
I would like to thank the Commission services for their helpfulness and cooperation, and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for the contribution they have made through their amendments.
My second question concerns the burden of proof.
They should be accessible to smaller groups, accessible for them to be able to devise, implement and monitor the programmes.
Mr President, the Santer Commission came to grief because financial control failed all down the line.
That is something we do not want to see, and we have therefore voted against any such extension.
Indeed, both parties will need to make huge efforts.
We know, I know myself, that the weeks we have before us will be useful to us.
It is about a Commission which is no more.
Like many other hundreds of volunteers, she had seen the destruction, washed birds and cleaned up after the people responsible who were not to be found on the coast on those evenings and nights when they really should have been required to be there.
Today, the new frontiers of European integration are political frontiers: common foreign and security policy, justice and internal security, and - to a lesser extent - the crucial question of the fundamental political values on which our coexistence is based.
Thank you, Mr President and thank you President-in-Office of the Council.
I am proud to support such a resolution.
So what do we need to happen immediately?
Culture does not only fall under the banner of culture but also under that of all kinds of other areas.
So people are doubtful about the safety of ships which carry dangerous or polluting goods.
If these amendments are adopted, I think that we shall cause Parliament seriously to lose credibility on environmental issues.
The Commission sympathises with these considerations.
I should like to raise three points which for us, as Members of the PPE Group, must be focal points when such an area is created.
Moreover, although I am not opposed to shipowners registering their vessels in their country of choice, I believe there is a need for stricter application of international regulations.
What we have seen is that war affects the environment in the long term and is dangerous.
It was this which inspired us to propose the same thing with regard to state aid.
The aim was not to draw conclusions - it was impossible to draw any - but the debate was certainly very encouraging.
Mr President, Mr Langen, ladies and gentlemen, as our rapporteur mentioned, we are coming to the end of a long and difficult process of conciliation with the Council on the ALTENER programme.
Indeed it must be permissible for state aid to be provided for such purposes, provided it does not lead to unacceptable distortion of competition.
What kind of horse-trading system is this?
We also intend to initiate a new debate, a more innovative one, on the issue of Europe' s film heritage, given that this must be one of the most important factors in the development of a European cultural identity and of a European audiovisual economy.
Although Britain and France have had their differences recently, I can assure you that there is considerable sympathy in my country for all those affected.
Regarding the first point, we say quite clearly that, in order to take into consideration the requirements of sustainable development which the European Union has endorsed, it is essential that, in some instances, there is state aid to businesses, be it in the form of tax exemptions, special taxation or even direct aid.
Last but not least, we need a long memory, for the issue of legislation will crop up on the agenda more frequently in the near future.
All good things come in threes, especially in our policy area.
I think we need to retain it.
Is there a member who wishes to speak on behalf of this Group to propose this?
As in employment strategy, there are four thematic areas: employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities, and we agree that those thematic areas should be enlarged in line with the European Parliament' s proposals.
I think that, at the moment, particularly in the last few months, there have been some positive developments in terms of the resources that will be available to Mr Kouchner, in order for him to be able to do his job efficiently.
I very much agree with you on that, but we can take nothing for granted.
There are two points which, in my opinion, deserve special attention on the part of the ELDR.
As for internal reform, you well know how committed my Commission has been to this since day one.
We attach crucial importance to applying, if necessary, the new provisions under Article 7 of the Amsterdam Treaty so that a country which, by its actions, infringes fundamental citizens' rights by means of discrimination and such like will have its voting rights in the EU' s Council of Ministers removed.
My second point has already been mentioned: it concerns the minimum standards.
We agree with its substance, its tone and its scope.
The emphasis should have been placed on the rejection of any policy of handouts and instead on the development of initiative and responsibility.
When the debate on the ability of politics to influence economics goes global, the establishment of this tax could become one of the symbols of the political desire to recapture the democratic areas seized by the international financial operators.
The Danish pension scheme, the Efterløn, only allows people resident in Denmark and people who have completed the required period of employment in Denmark to retire.
No, it does not!
Your behaviour stems from your own prejudices, you are dispensing with any form of political debate and you are displaying precisely the kind of behaviour you claim to oppose.
It seems difficult to envisage such a situation evolving.
We can be proud of a European competition culture, for it is this that will make the social market economy a reality.
We must do the same as far as we ourselves are concerned.
However, justice delayed is justice denied, and we must reflect on this notion.
Admittedly, there is the International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund, IOPCF, but it waters down the issue of liability and sets its ceiling at a quite inadequate level, which must be reviewed.
We consider the English version to be the original text.
Last February in this House we unambiguously decided (and we Social Democrats are sticking to this) that the matter of freedom from costs for the last owner is not open to question!
Only then would we have been able to conduct proper and searching discussions.
Nothing has changed there.
But, listening to you, Commissioner, we are somewhat frustrated because anyone already involved in these matters knows that in 1992, I believe, the Commission and Parliament drew up a very interesting text which already contained all the proposals included in the resolution drawn up by the transport committee.
But information which includes a fundamental disagreement between scientists on core issues relating to food safety is also an issue of serious concern.
It should be noted that the new Commission gave an immediate follow-up to the European Ombudsman decision of 28 July 1999 in his own-initiative inquiry related to the code.
Madam President, I would like to thank the Council and Commission for a useful and thorough conciliation procedure and one that was good-tempered all round, which is not always the case.
They are involved in low-profile work of valuable cultural importance.
A5-0007/2000 by Mrs Berger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on a proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the posting of workers who are third-country nationals for the provision of cross-border services (COM(1999)3 - C4-0095/1999 - 1999/0012(COD));
I will give you one example of this.
I believe that, quite apart from the nature of the issue concerned, the EU' s directives should not treat small companies within the Union unfairly.
We were able, at the Istanbul Summit a couple of weeks ago, to meet and have discussions with some of the Central Asian republics.
We therefore respect whatever Parliament may decide.
Unfortunately, we can expect there to be repeat performances of this kind of major disaster in the future.
In the same category of ideas, it is essential that Member States fulfil their obligation to be accountable to the Commission for the aid granted to their steel companies.
The new legal framework will cover animal feed, animal health and welfare, hygiene, contaminants and residues, novel food, additives, flavourings, packaging and irradiation.
Let us contemplate this result, derive satisfaction from it and grant ourselves a licence to fully embrace this worthwhile strategy.
Question No 9 by (H-0798/99):
I regret the confusion which arose recently due to internal documents from the Commission being wrongly used, so creating uncertainty about the Commission' s attitude to the issue.
All asylum seekers and refugees are to be included explicitly in the programmes, although this should be self-evident.
However, the use of the precautionary principle has been increasingly in the spotlight in recent years.
I believe that I can say with conviction and also with satisfaction that 1999 was both a turning point and a year of consolidation by the Union on issues of freedom, security and justice.
We must therefore try to reconcile the two requirements - Parliament is sometimes a little extremist, adopting positions that are either extremely pro-green or extremely anti-green - and, all things considered, find a way to combine the effort made by Mr Florenz and that of other Members, who are trying to reconcile the two positions as best as possible.
Creating a functioning urban environment in terms of social policy requires a policy of long-term job creation, action to combat poverty, measures to assist low-income groups and old people, facilities for children, racial and ethnic integration, better opportunities for participation, a targeted public health policy including measures to prevent drug abuse and concerted crime prevention measures.
The urban dimension must be incorporated much more deeply in all the structural funds.
Madam President, I can hear a ripple of laughter from the Socialists. I was told that large sections of the Socialist Group were also keen to have this item taken off the agenda, because at the vote in the Conference of Presidents no vote was received from the working group of Members of the Socialist Group responsible for this matter.
We have heard some very thorough observations which both concern the philosophy of economic policy and are important for the institutional order.
In addition, and to achieve better assurances than those provided under the present system, the new system of decentralised controls must be complemented by setting up an internal audit service - "the second key" as Herr Bösch said, established in a way that is closely consistent with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts.
We want a colourful Europe.
And should the directive be retrospective to cover every car that has ever been made?
Both draft directives seek to facilitate the freedom to provide services for EU enterprises.
I think we should be capable of saying this loud and clear.
The Council must start by at long last ensuring that EURODAC is adopted in order to create the basic requirement for classifying asylum seekers.
Mrs Lynne asks whether the authority will have sufficient teeth.
The report warned that the forthcoming process would lead to restrictions upon the transparency of the Member States.
On the other hand, the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF, also contributes as part of its role to promoting social and economic cohesion, by redressing the main regional imbalances and encouraging rural areas to take part in development and conversion.
A proper plan for fighting unemployment must be established for this is the scourge which is allowing the rise of racism, xenophobia, nationalism and extreme-right racist movements.
We were of the opinion that EURODAC was becoming a reality.
It is not enough to say that, in the Member States, there is already 40 years' worth of experience.
The Commission wholeheartedly agrees with the rapporteur that this is an unacceptable situation
We have to remember that our basic energy production cannot be based on renewables for a long time to come.
There is an immense risk of exclusion.
Of all people, it is the Albanians, who are now being integrated into the transitional council, who ought in fact to have a little more idea as to what is in store for them.
It is perfectly correct that we need to apply this in certain cases.
With regard to enforcement, proper agreements must also be concluded with the Eastern European countries because they will not enter into treaties which deal with this matter until 1 July 2001, that is to say in eighteen months' time.
The Commission does not consider that the amendments would improve the balance without, at the same time, creating tensions.
When that time comes, when we have used up all our resources, I shall not hesitate to come here before you to request further resources, but what I am saying now is that if we are not given these necessary resources, we shall have to refuse to take on any new duties because the available resources will not be commensurate with the new tasks that we will be taking on.
We can only condemn a policy on minorities which is inevitably dangerous for social cohesion.
But to bring it down to a more human level: to give assistance to those people who are trying to come off drugs, and give them proper controls and proper mechanisms for rehabilitation; secondly, to coordinate amongst the police forces and the judiciary with regard to common penalties and common laws; thirdly, to undertake an information and awareness campaign for young people; and once and for all to put an end to these very dangerous words of "normalisation" and "harm reduction" and show that any weakening of our resolve in making sure that drugs are not legalised must be for the good of all our people.
Mr President, we need to take an important decision today.
It is very important that we include liability in that process.
The EU really deserves such a gesture, but differences between rich and poor areas within countries are still too great.
I do not think that we can accept their procedures.
Once again, the principle of 'polluter pays' is not being applied. The taxpayer is still footing the bill.
They made it clear to me that the arguments concerning lack of safety, for example, are nonsense.
Because our states, with the blessing of the Community, did not deem it useful to have its own commercial fleet and allowed meticulous shipbuilding know-how to disappear, we no longer have access to the clear traceability of vessels and we can see veritable coffin ships navigating our waters under flags of convenience, drifting according to the short-term interests of the multinationals.
Thank you, Mr De Rossa.
In fact, we were shaken by it.
This is not just the fault of the Commission, but I believe that we need to take action more quickly so as to achieve harmonisation in this area as well.
Madam President, I speak as someone who is in support of a tax on speculative capital movements across currency borders.
I say this in case there is any doubt about the criticisms which we have directed at the Commission in general, and Mr Monti, in particular, for its persecution of the incentives to Basque companies and the fact that it considers them to be state aid.
This directive encourages the whole of this sector.
I abstained in the vote on adopting the resolution.
This can only be detected if controls undertaken are more rigorous.
Against this background, I want to conclude with a remarkable story from Sweden where an international Intergovernmental Conference on Hitler' s extermination of the Jews is being held, which is obviously a welcome initiative.
With regard to the first area - new forms of governance for Europe - you already know that the Commission has undertaken to produce a White Paper and not a full legislative text since, in the light of major issues which are changing the structure of the way we interact, the Commission is first of all preparing for a debate; we will subsequently discuss the content with you; this will give rise to a policy document, and finally, a legislative document.
One part of this is to improve the access of the citizen to the Court.
Mr President, the Council and, I think, the Portuguese Presidency in particular, are extremely aware of the importance of the problems Mr Gallagher' s question raises and I would like to say that we have always paid the utmost attention to Community policies for the development of rural areas.
Do not forget that, in the case of cars, 80% of environmental impact comes through driving, 1% through recovery and 19% through construction.
These numbers represent, in our opinion and in the opinion of the Council, a real improvement in terms of conservation in comparison with the level of 80% laid down in Council Regulation 685/95.
To this end, I shall confine myself to stressing, out of all the choices available, the importance of three priority decisions which should, in the drawing-up of action programmes for the government of the Union, be the basis for both the Commission' s agenda and the actions of the European Union in the coming months.
As in any other party manifesto, it is full of contradictions.
Mr Cox, Mr Hänsch, would this be acceptable to you?
The second concern which I notice that many of you share - it was first expressed by Mr Bourlanges, but others have repeated it - refers to the situation regarding the other donors.
Madam President, it is remarkable that the European Parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of Mr Pinochet, despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued.
We are in favour of the International Criminal Court, but it does not yet exist.
It has been said before, and we have discussed this between ourselves on various occasions, that culture is, of course, extremely important as an area unto itself - I would like to stress this once again - but also as the instrument par excellence for furthering the European idea.
I hope that the next time you ask me the question, I will be in a position to give you more detailed information.
It is our fundamental values which are at stake here. As the democratically elected representatives of the European people, we have no choice.
The point I want to make relates to Mrs Theato' s report.
Amendment No 12 involves a delay of at least ten years in bringing the provision into force.
I am confident that Commissioner Barnier and the President of the European Commission will duly consider Parliament' s position on the matter, in accordance with the Code of Conduct.
Let there be no doubt about it: we decline with thanks a Europe which develops into a kind of "big brother" and which keeps watch over left-wing political correctness in one Member State or another in a Stalinist way and using Stalinist methods.
We need more explanation of what Europe is about.
The guiding thread running through all the aspects of the reform of competition policy, which we shall have the opportunity to address together, aims to ensure more effective protection of competition, reduce the bureaucratic burden weighing down businesses and take decision-making processes closer to the European people.
This across-the-board approach is sensible because the programmes for rural development are also structured in this way.
But optimum efficiency does not necessarily come about of its own accord.
They may also adopt alternative conditions for transportation of a local nature and for ad hoc transportation.
In the light of developments in recent days, it might well be asked what we really are to do about these intergovernmental conferences and treaty amendments when government leaders - in reality the European Council of Ministers - make decisions in relation to an independent Member State entailing intervention in that Member State' s democratic process.
Yes, Mrs Schroedter, I shall be pleased to look into the facts of this case when I have received your letter.
In addition, experience from other fields where observatories have been set up shows that, apart from rather dubiously creating jobs, they are not of any great benefit.
This is an irreparable loss.
Naturally, this is only to be welcomed.
I conclude by referring to paragraph 15 of the resolution before the House relating to the resource requirements of our policies for change.
In accordance with new provisions included in the Amsterdam Treaty all the 370 million consumers within the European Union have a right to consumer-related information.
Indeed, if we add the two Members who have declared themselves, then the result of the vote would be ....
The Left' s Members of Parliament therefore supported the Liberal decision' s powerful rejection of any form of xenophobia in Austria or elsewhere.
We look to the Commission to deal with points in relation to additionality.
This situation really cannot continue and we must therefore protest most strongly.
That figure of EUR 167 million for so many years is a disgrace for the European Union!
The van Hulten report started out as a brilliant one and I would like to pay deep and sincere tribute here to what Mr van Hulten achieved.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
At last we are convinced that our young people may start to see an end to the tragic unemployment, the source of so much despair, if we can export to neighbouring countries the know-how which we have gained thanks to the operation of the European structural funds.
I should like to end by saying that the planning of the new inter-state cooperation zones has taken no account of the Mediterranean' s geographical peculiarities, which would justify the creation of a special zone for coastal and island regions.
Therefore, the responsibility of the European Union has to be seen in a certain context.
I would very much like to support what Mrs Morgan said on this issue.
The Council' s failings in this respect are a source of much regret.
Many people in my country say they see British culture being under threat, for example, from Portugal, from Germany, from Finland, for heaven' s sake.
Mr President, as far as the second reading is concerned, the Commission can only accept one proposed amendment put forward by Parliament.
Start representing your people and not just your car manufacturers!
We could ask ourselves why the Austrians are rejecting 10 years, 13 years of party politics which has made one country - Austria - corrupt and rotten, just as it is now corrupting countries such as Italy, Belgium and other European Union Member States.
This communication does not pretend to be the final word on this issue; however, it is the first time that the Commission has presented a structured presentation of the principle and its operational use.
And I refer once again to the declarations which we have heard in recent days.
The less precise, Mr van Hulten, we are in our resolutions, the more room it gives the Commission and your former colleagues in the Council to do what they like.
That is a shame because it threatens perfectly sensible projects.
Unfortunately, the excellent Schroedter report did not take account of this criterion, despite the fact that there is considerable evidence to show - as we shall see later in the Berend report - how, in fact, these funds are providing splendid assistance to the most backward regions in order to bridge the gulf that separates them from Europe' s most highly-developed regions.
Here, we wish to stress the need for the balanced involvement of women, and the agencies that represent them, in planning and implementing the URBAN initiative programmes.
Just look at transport policy; clearly it is crucial for this policy to be drawn up as a economically and ecologically sensible policy before the accession of other countries.
(Limited applause)
Your question switched to the subject of arms, a broader policy issue which I do not think falls within the scope of this question but which the Council will, of course, address in the future, if it sees fit and if it decides to put it in a specific context.
Mr President, we are basically in favour of the resolution that has been tabled, even if we think that this can only be interpreted as an invitation by Parliament to the Council to amend the Treaties, so that effective protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests can be guaranteed.
I do not know if you are aware, representatives of the Council of Ministers, of your responsibility over these last few years, and in 2000 as well, for the plight of the families who live on anchovy fishing in the north of the Iberian Peninsular.
We have Commission documents which speak of firm commitments.
The car lobby has led too many people up the garden path.
We must give them this opportunity.
They are the result of human thoughtlessness.
I am not looking for such rigidly high recycling quotas when it comes to special-purpose vehicles either.
The fact that we have a European car industry which has already made great strides more than properly compensates for the fact that there are, in fact, a good many cars on European roads for which they must take responsibility.
All this does is to legitimise the development, on the European scale, of resistance movements anxious to bring in a social charter which would harmonise workers' main claims towards the highest common denominator.
Why am I stressing this point?
Mr President, Commissioner, today we are engaged in an important debate about the European Union' s competition policy.
On the other hand, we are witnessing the birth of a political Europe, which entails a collection of shared values which we all agree upon, and a European Union at the service of the citizens.
Report (A5-0078/1999) by Mr Rapkay, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the European Commission' s XXVIIIth Report on Competition Policy (1998) (SEC(1999)0743 - C5-0121/1999 - 1999/2124(COS))
Rural areas make up over 80% of the EU' s territory and 25% of the population live in them.
Last Thursday speaking times were extremely tight and then suddenly we had between one and one-and-a-half hours when there was nothing on the agenda and we had to wait for the vote.
I urge you to support this Europe and to support and help this Austria!
Only in this way can we create a new culture in the Commission and at the same time get public confidence restored.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the report which they produced after extremely thorough and meticulous work, your two rapporteurs, Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, proposed that Parliament should adopt a formal opinion pursuant to Article 48 of the Treaty and thus, if this opinion were adopted, the Intergovernmental Conference could effectively start on 14 February, as suggested by the Portuguese Presidency.
I have one observation, not a criticism, to make regarding Commissioner Prodi's statement this morning and that is that it was a little weak on the actual content of economic policy.
On a final note, I too believe that OLAF requires monitoring under rule of law.
Might Mr Kinnock be able to throw some light on the matter this evening?
Cultural activity creates identity.
We all belong on the same boat and want to row with you.
Nevertheless, there is no doubt that with the election of the new government, positive steps have been taken: negotiations, at least, have resumed. But in the Middle East, there can be no stable and lasting peace if the Palestinians do not have their own state, if they cannot move freely within their own territory.
I remain at your service in order, when the time comes, to present the report of previous planning which you request, but also to keep you informed regularly as to the implementation of these initiatives in the course of the new planning.
The directive applies to complete cars, that is to say cars with none of the essential components missing.
There is a delay in adopting the INTERREG guidelines in March or April 2000.
The Social-Democratic Group has submitted a few important proposals for improvement over the past couple of days.
Not only do these decisions conflict with the Treaty and apportion to the institutions of the Union more power than that to which they are entitled but, worst of all, their effect will be counter-productive.
In short, the issue is an important one.
Mr President, the EU is now exposed to tough scrutiny.
Madam President, until now we believed that the European Union was, according to the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of Paris founding the European Communities, and subsequently the Union, an association of free, independent, sovereign states.
The Commission suggests shorter deadlines.
At the same time they call for the existence of an independent body to coordinate and monitor the thoroughness of investigations by OLAF, without harming the administration of justice by each Member State and under the supervision of the European Court of Justice.
Brussels is not all of us, as you claim. It is all of you.
Curiously, a number of employers agreed with them, preferring the European "one-stop" system, which they consider to be more economical and more stable legally.
I therefore welcome the continuation of the programme.
We are proposing a system which considerably improves legal certainty for SMEs.
To conclude, I want to welcome the Commission' s XVIIIth Report on Competition Policy, on which, once again, a good deal of work has been done.
I am also aware that we are probably also going to have to do something about the European Commission' s inclination to renationalise competition decisions and transfer them back to national level.
It is expressed again in the unbelievable excess perpetrated by the European Parliament which today in its vote on a resolution wished to cancel out the result of the free elections in Austria.
If a political decision is involved, I would also like to ask: who takes this political decision?
Mr Seixas da Costa, I totally agree with you.
Therefore, the Commission should address the issue once and for all.
I would like to quote verbatim from the report: "State aid per capita is highest in Italy, Germany and Ireland. Ireland clearly is in the lead when national and Community regional and social funds are put together."
This programme will hopefully encourage Member States to act with greater determination to increase the use of renewable energy.
The Commission' s programme is to be supplemented by enhanced follow-up supervision of the national authorities and Member States' courts.
They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions.
I am waiting for the Commission' s report on the ultra-peripheral regions, which the Council decided should be drawn up by December 1999.
In this connection, French speakers would speak of a "coup de chapeau" : in other words, I take my hat off to the EU.
With some 80% of the population of Europe living in an urban area, cities are at the forefront of economic, social and cultural change in Europe.
We also take good note of the fact that the Member who has asked the question has applauded the Commissioner' s answer.
Competition yes, restrictions in state aid where necessary and where possible.
The Commission is also said to have the right of evocation and can give guidelines to the national competition authorities.
But there is a common factor, a hard core, comprising unemployment, the resignation or withdrawal of public services and the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises, both commercial and other kinds.
I share the regrets she expressed, namely that Parliament has become involved rather late in the day as regards these guidelines, since by now the procedure for negotiations with the states is so far advanced that I cannot see this report having any sort of immediate effect, which in my view is a pity.
I can assure you that this is an issue which the Portuguese Presidency will keep before the Member States and the representatives of the preparatory group for the conference.
Firstly, the classic Eurofederalist ideological shift, a single market, a single VAT, a single diplomatic service, a single army and now a single criminal code and a single public prosecutor.
The Intergovernmental Conference that is about to begin is important, both in a general sense and more particularly in view of the imminent enlargement.
What I do see right across Europe is people drinking Coca Cola, eating hamburgers, wearing baseball caps, watching Hollywood films and often doing all this at the same time.
What other explanation could there be for omitting women?
Due to the existence of these borders, they have become peripheral areas within the countries to which they belong. This has too often led the national authorities to neglect these regions in national policy.
When I think that I have to explain your work programme week in, week out to my constituents, not in the rarefied atmosphere of this House, but on the street, then I ask myself, what can I say?
The Commission should now produce an ambitious and far-reaching reform programme.
Eurosceptics claim that this is a threat to sovereignty, the end of the nation-state, and so on.
With this in mind, it goes without saying that nuclear plants a priori should not be built in areas prone to earthquakes.
I wish to express that view even if I respectfully disagreed and voted against the proposal of the President of the Socialist Group.
Following on from this, it is probably also more meaningful, with regard to the financial aid to regions, to give Member States more say anyway.
My second point regarding the policy is as follows: the Structural Funds have made, and continue to make, a significant contribution to the convergence process.
You know that voting by roll call or electronic checking only takes place if Members of the House request it.
I was promised back in September that there would be a Dutch channel by January.
We shall try to achieve a consensus on this matter.
I note, however, that the Member States and the regions are already actively preparing the programmes for INTERREG III and indeed the guidance project was distributed over three months ago now.
I shall finish by restating my conviction that without economic and social cohesion, there will be no cohesion at all, only disunity.
On the other hand, Parliament is issuing a resolution in one vote, for which we can see the agreement amongst the various speakers who have preceded me. I think that this is an opportunity to put parliamentary pressure on the doubts or evasions of a few governments and I think that we are providing the Commission with a powerful political act for the preparation of a European maritime area.
In committee we thought that it was necessary for the economic and social regeneration of urban areas to go hand-in-hand with the creation of an atmosphere of tolerance towards minorities and therefore for measures designed to reduce racism and xenophobia to be an integral part of programmes to be funded by URBAN.
We do not think that the new Commission, under any circumstances, could incur liability for the past.
Mrs Banotti apparently promised to write a letter explaining why permission was withdrawn but so far no letter has been received.
So what we are looking for is cooperation between local groups, between local authorities and between countries in order to exchange experiences; that is mainly what we are looking for, and for experience to be transferred from one country to another so that it can be emulated.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
It is a quite different Europe which is taking shape in the long term.
As far as a European asylum law is concerned, a start was in fact made at Vienna and Tampere.
These first three subjects are very important but they are subjects which were explored in detail by our Member States during the last IGC.
Those representing Europe who are active at the grass roots level in pursuing this objective, and I am thinking in particular of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, are on the verge of despondency precisely because, since matters are improving, there is less talk of Kosovo and the urgent nature of the aid which is needed there is becoming less apparent.
Therefore, the issues of the reversed burden of proof and of what the burden of proof is to look like are not especially discussed in this context. Instead, it is a question of political decision-making and of the bases for this.
Although new to this House he is relatively old in some respects, certainly in his familiarity with the Institutions as a former official - and I think that the value of that is shown by his ability to tackle the complex subject which is of critical importance, as several Members have said, to all of our Institutions.
If you want to better inform the people, you should start by strengthening liaison with this House, as we are the representatives of the citizens.
We all know that so far the Council has dragged its feet with regard to follow-up regulations of this kind.
However, this report is based on long and effective work which has already produced certain results, such as the incorporation into the Finnish Presidency' s document of 7 December 1999 of the commitment to widen the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference to include a study of the future modification of the organisation, composition and competences of the Community Courts.
We have fully supported the efforts of the United Nations mission and the international security forces in Kosovo to prevent further outbreaks of violence against minorities and to protect the populations under threat.
I can live with these minimum standards, but I would ask the Commission to monitor the situation very carefully.
First of all, could I express my thanks on behalf of President Prodi and my colleagues in the Commission for the support and understanding offered by several Members of the House to the position taken by the Commission in the statement that we made yesterday.
I just have the distinct feeling that she would have preferred to take it a little further at this stage.
Let me refer you to the explanatory statement for the quantitative aspects of the report and simply mention at this point that the annual level of state aid, on average, for the period under review, is in the order of EUR 95 billion, corresponding to a reduction in the order of 13 % in relation to the period 1993-1995, a reduction which is essentially due to a reduction in aid in the Federal Republic of Germany.
Almost three weeks after the disaster, several thousand people were still without electricity and telephones, 500 000 hectares of forestry land, or 100 million cubic metres of forest, have been ruined, and our historical heritage has also been affected, as the sad example of the park at the Palace of Versailles demonstrates.
At or around the time of President Clinton's visit to China, the President of the People's Republic of China gave the impression that dialogue was on the agenda.
I have, however, no sympathy for Mrs Lucas trying to hide behind her Parliamentary immunity.
All in all, INTERREG, the International Fund for Ireland and the Peace and Reconciliation programme have all played an important role in the developing peace process.
But when corpus juris was actually launched in 1977 in San Sebastian - to a very select audience of 140 jurists, with no media invited - the President of the European Parliament at the time, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, said that he considered it embryonic and that the intention was to extend EU competence in criminal matters to all areas of criminal activity.
Again, because these conciliations are not entirely straight forward, we have to thank Vice-President Imbeni for his exemplary negotiating skills in the convoluted field of ensuring that cultural expenditure is wisely deployed and given to us in our Community.
Mr Prodi, you do not know what you are talking about.
It is true that the problem of the forestry sector is an extremely complex one.
However, Israel is not the only country concerned with security.
The Netherlands has an exemplary model for disposing of cars as per the wishes of the directive and the issue of whether the buyer of a new car should pay or, in the case of end-of-life vehicles currently driving around, the manufacturer, has nothing, absolutely nothing, to do with ecology; it is a simple question of competition!
Madam President, I clearly owe Mr Wurtz an explanation, and I am going give this explanation before the whole House.
Until now, the restrictions on the freedom of movement within the Union of non-Community workers have been very harsh.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
The Committee supports the Commission proposal to concentrate actions in small selected areas and believes that, given the dispersed nature of many rural inhabited locations, the minimum demographic ceiling for the selection of a project should be reduced to 10 000 inhabitants.
The Commission, in my opinion, has shown a clear and unprecedented commitment to change and for this they are to be congratulated.
It is already established within the Community acquis that those legislative issues which are decided by a qualified majority are also subject to codecision with Parliament.
However, it is difficult to predict what the content of this charter will be and how it will be implemented legally when you think of the people who are not currently citizens of the Union.
(IT) I shall now quickly turn, Mr President, to Mr Rapkay' s report, and I would like to thank him sincerely for the quality of his work and for the broad endorsement given to the Commission' s XXVIIIth Annual Report on Competition Policy.
Of course, the Treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable; I was almost going to say 'irreparable' .
Mr President, the reform of the Community judicial system has become an essential requirement if, in the future, we intend justice to be done within reasonable time scales, and if, in the future, the European Union wishes to have a judicial system which is equal to the political project which we have embarked upon.
Moreover, the cost will have to be borne in the future.
Enlargement - and Alleanza Nazionale has been repeating this for ten years in this House - must not mean dilution, that is, it must not entail more risks.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, I should like to thank you for your statements, especially Commissioner Patten, whose analysis I fully share and I shall not, therefore, repeat any of his ideas.
I would also like to say that the position of the fourteen states emanating from the Council was justified, as in a way this is also a matter of the composition of the government of the European Union, meaning this is also a matter for the Council and not merely an internal affair of Austria' s.
We must take the best from each of our countries.
The next item is the Commission statement on the oil slick off the French coast.
We shall now proceed to the vote.1
Madam President, first of all I should like to thank Mr Koch for his report which has, at its heart, the issue of transport safety.
We have seen poverty growing in Wales; and growing still further since 1997.
Mr President, there are days when I really cannot understand this Parliament. It seems to take a masochistic pleasure in self-mutilation.
I too am not aware of any reason why a tax on exchange rate transactions would lead to a stabilisation of exchange rates.
A series of communications will therefore follow in the coming months.
The unilateral decision by Belgium to re-establish border controls is a clear illustration of this.
I am convinced that this proposal will increase legal certainty for businesses for three reasons: by virtue of the direct effect of Article 81(3), it will permit authorisation, without a prior decision, of all restrictive competition agreements which meet the exemption conditions; it will create the opportunity to help businesses in the event of doubts over interpretation through the publication of reasoned opinions; it will be accompanied by exemption regulations and guidelines which will clarify the rules and ensure certainty.
We warn that this coalition, if it is formed today, unacceptably legitimises the extreme right, directly in contradiction with the principles of peace and reconciliation, which bring us together in this European Union.
Nevertheless, I have tabled an amendment.
We must continue to keep inflation under control, proceed with liberalisation, ensure more competition, encourage the dissemination of information technology and all new technologies; push forward with science, and push back scientific boundaries, and develop an appetite for being at the cutting edge of science.
The EQUAL initiative has a specific mission. To encourage, to assist promotion, to create statistics, to create studies and agencies to support those sections of the population which suffer discrimination.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt said that nothing had ever been done.
At the same time, there is a war going on between Eritrea and Ethiopia and the armaments industry in Europe is not short in sending guns, after which we will send the bread.
It is the meeting of Europe with itself, with its raison d' être, with the reasons why we are here in this Chamber.
I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that the failure of the Commission' s communication to focus on territorial pacts and, especially, methods of combating unemployment among women and young people, is cause for serious concern.
That is one of the issues that we address in the annex to the legislation, and the intention is to establish a positive list for feed material.
The Internet is not a product of the market, but the result of research financed by the American army.
I would therefore like to ask the Council if it is prepared henceforth to support culture with the same readiness as it supported bananas, hops, cows and Indian hemp.
Naturally I will not take up any more of the time of the House than is absolutely necessary.
Both enlargement and the achievements of integration will come under threat unless we can create a system of concentric rings, as proposed by the Group of the European Liberal Democrats and Reform Party.
We recognise that means discipline on the part of Commission officials and we recognise also that we have a responsibility within Parliament on discipline when we talk about negative priorities.
I do not think there is any difference between us and the Ombudsman.
I also note that eligibility for expenditure shall be accepted from the date that programmes are presented and I can confirm the possibility that they may be available retroactively back to 1 January, if the programme is presented before 30 April.
However, we agreed to this compromise because it was important to us to enable this programme to be launched very soon indeed.
Changes to the Financial Regulation will be required and Parliament must have its say on those changes.
A long memory will serve us well, ladies and gentlemen.
This is extraordinarily positive, and there is cause to thank the rapporteur, Mr Koch, for the work he has put in on this issue.
The French must be made aware not only that the purpose of all these operations is to eliminate their country as a responsible centre for decision making, but that furthermore every means will be used to extract their consent.
In general where the employment policy measures are concerned it would seem to me to be necessary for appointments to the joint cooperation committee to be made on a regional basis - because the local expertise required for these specific purposes is only available at regional level - so as to avoid these measures becoming too abstract and therefore proving disappointing.
The Community contribution of over EUR 600 million in grants and loans between 1994 and 1998 effectively underpinned the Palestinian authority and contributed substantially towards the reconstruction of the deteriorated physical infrastructure in the West Bank and Gaza.
It should not be dramatised into something more than that.
I would like to say that transparency does not only apply from the Community institutions "outwards" , it also applies between the institutions.
I think it is a good thing that this directive does not need to apply to historic vehicles, and I think we ought to add this provision to it.
I would like to ask if the Commission is able to enlighten us on the reasons for the delay in the Commission' s report on the outermost regions, which has been long awaited by Parliament?
The Danish authorities do not consider that they are obliged under Community law to pay this compensation to workers taking early retirement who do not meet the conditions required under Danish law.
In June of last year Europe's voters gave a clear signal that they are fed up with endless stories about mismanagement and nepotism.
Furthermore, the new Advisory Committee that has been created is made up of representatives of the taxpaying Member States.
The Court's report is there for a reason, our response to it is there for a reason and it is important that it is followed through.
When, on the other hand, the decision has been made to take a certain measure, the one chosen ought to be cost-effective so that there is in fact no resort to measures which are wholly unreasonable given their degree of effectiveness.
Furthermore, if a ship is no longer seaworthy, not only should the facts be examined, but a legal system should be introduced which states or recommends that the vessel should no longer be used.
Drawing to a close, I should like to focus on a number of challenges which you reiterated, Mrs Schroedter.
What steps will the Council take to prevent nuclear accidents and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in a country that wishes to join the EU but spends enormous amounts on nuclear programmes while receiving financial aid from the EU budget?
It also, of course, damages credibility when it is stated that monetary union could constitute a counterbalance to globalised capital.
It is easy to see that the car industry in certain countries, for example in Germany, went in for some pretty tough lobbying before the present directive was adopted.
Mr President, may I begin by paying tribute to the painstaking and, from what I hear, the pains-accepting work of Mr van Hulten in preparing his report.
It should be our goal to ensure that port state controls are not superficial, but include materials testing.
It has never been done in south-east Asia, it has never been done in Europe, and I can understand why Mr Karas from Austria has left the chamber, given Austria' s financial record.
After the first reading in the European Parliament in 1999, the Commission' s proposal ended up in an awkward political situation in the Council.
The debate is closed.
All asylum-seekers must be entitled to a fair hearing and an appeal with suspensory effect.
The bulk of these financial transactions are purely speculative and do not involve any trade in goods or investments.
No political cohesion has so far come about, not even in the fight against organised crime, or in defence of the victims of genocide; we do not have a currency that is even remotely stable or an economy which really does combat unemployment and poverty; but it only took one minute of iconoclastic fury to destroy the Union' s credibility.
I am particularly thinking in this respect of certain infrastructures which are under construction.
This is the time when we should have expressed our opinion of the Commission proposal to put an end to the derogations.
The Commission has put forward a new White Paper on this containing two key points: dropping the obligation to notify and retrodisplacement of law enforcement.
This is the only way of affording the victims the opportunity to make their claims for compensation.
I know full well that we will not be able to achieve any political objective if the Commission does not undertake vigorous and comprehensive internal reform, if it does not become more efficient, if it does not increase efficiency in all sectors, starting with the sector in which the worst backlogs have built up in the past - external aid.
Although the Steel Aid Code is expressed in a very clear way, the Commission has, on a number of occasions, authorised aid for the steel industry even though such aid did not fall within the categories set out in the code.
Question No 45 by (H-0006/00):
As to the second comment: regarding the non-comprehensive list of measures eligible under strand B, I wish to inform you, to confirm, that I have asked the Commission to accept the inclusion of other specific subjects, particularly in favour of small- and medium-sized businesses and of cultural heritage, in the list of schemes eligible under strand B and that therefore this list must no longer be considered as a comprehensive one.
We are nonetheless, as is our right as well as our responsibility, telling them that if they go ahead then there are consequences arising from such a decision and in fact we are warning them beforehand.
Naturally, that they should be environmentally friendly, that they should be recyclable, that they should be fuel-efficient and that they should not pollute our environment.
I note that you consider the fall of the Berlin wall to be the crucial factor of the end of the century.
What I would very much like you to tell me is how you intend to guarantee that a new authority of this kind, whatever name it goes by, will be given influence over the Council, who in this authority will have the say in matters, and who will issue orders.
What is the idea behind preventing people from working when they wish to do so?
These have been the most important moments in the Council' s expression of its political will to establish an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union.
This apparently generous policy, officially intended to help problem regions, is a fool' s bargain for French taxpayers.
In addition, I am of the opinion that funding for a town or neighbourhood, especially where Community contributions are concerned, should incentivise.
A moment ago, Mr Vatanen spoke to us of lower temperatures, not of 20 degrees below zero, but of 40 degrees below zero.
I would point out that there is no European legal system, but that a different legal system exists in each Member State.
We are all aware of the enormous expectations of our people with regard to freedom, security and justice, particularly social justice.
We also, however, deplore the fact that your Parliament should consider interfering in the policies of an elected government of any country, especially one which is part of the European Union.
The European Union was founded through the efforts of just a few countries, and you see how we are today.
I appreciate that it is a provocative question.
The West fought for human rights in Kosovo and what is happening there today?
Consequently, I too have to say that I am in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Firstly, and as the Commission itself states, it must be understood that the great improvement seen by some of the poorest regions in their per capita GDP between 1991 and 1996 was largely due to the inclusion of the new German Länder in calculating the Community average from 1991 onwards.
Many of our amendments relate back to concerns that were also voiced in the Council, and we are attempting to reconcile these concerns with the task that falls to us by dint of extant law and economic good sense.
I nonetheless agree with the rapporteur that it is quite unacceptable that most Member States should still not have ratified this Agreement.
Therefore - in summary - I await, and many of us await, your report, Commissioner Kinnock, so that we can really express our opinion on it, which is the duty of this Parliament.
A year is ample time to address a large number of issues and it should certainly be enough to address the few crucial points that we wish to be added to the agenda.
Frequent monitoring and situation assessments have shown that European Union assistance is contributing to the stability of these countries and therefore the ongoing peace process.
It was the 1996 accounts which led to the downfall of the previous Commission, and the 1997 accounts are just as incriminating.
Their efficiency has been truly remarkable.
With regard to URBAN, I should like to conclude with a final observation.
The operation of the previous round of programmes is also very instructive in telling us what guidelines should not be about.
The first relates to a large suspension bridge and whether or not tolls on it should be subject to VAT.
Furthermore, on the subject of crossing the external borders of Member States, which is a central issue regarding the free movement of persons, I shall, in the next few days, be presenting a proposal for a regulation updating the list of third countries whose nationals are required to hold visas for crossing the external borders.
Relating to Wednesday:
I think that you must have done so, because you have not mentioned it.
We await the outcome with great interest.
(Applause)
In fact, taking note of the congestion of its services due to the prior notification system of state agreements likely to cause distortions in trade, and afraid of seeing the number of notifications increase yet further with the arrival of new Member States, the Commission is proposing to do away with the prior notification system of such agreements, and to apply competition rules at Member State level in a more decentralised fashion.
I hope that this change will not mean an even greater marginalisation of fishing, since the silence of your programme, with regard to fishing, is deafening.
Sometimes it is worthy of satire and merits discussion, but I digress.
In the lifetime of this Commission and this Parliament we must succeed in the task of winning the difficult and uneasy peace in south-eastern Europe.
It is clearly a dilemma with which the rapporteur has also struggled.
It seems that you are proposing the same old menu, but with more unsatisfactory implications, restricting the Commission, so you say, to the task of drawing up a few White Papers, as you proposed.
A5-0069/1999 by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission White Paper on modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty [COM(1999) 101 - C5-0105/1999 - 1999/2108(COS)];
Decourrière report (A5-0028/2000)
It will be headed by a professionally qualified member of the audit profession and its independence must and will be guaranteed through a new provision to be added in the financial regulation.
What we need are not just reforms of the World Trade Organisation and the economic architecture - and, significantly, the President of the Commission forgot to mention the reform of the financial institutions and international financial architecture; we also need confidence-building measures for our citizens, who rightly expect help and support from and in the EU with the inevitable and painful process of adapting to new global circumstances.
And these are the consequences!
The Leader programme at its core affords an opportunity for public, private and voluntary groups to pool their collective talents so as to create long-term and sustainable jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
This body, for example, alongside the recently established cross-border body in Ireland for food safety, is already doing good work.
I have heard the honourable Member talk in the past about the Caucasus as well.
Commissioner, I believe that it is time to opt for the safest technically possible measures.
In its resolution, this Parliament stated that discharge could not be granted until we had received serious, far-reaching proposals for reform from the new European Commission.
Thank you, Commissioner Monti.
The Commission' s proposal does not formally deviate from the monopolies ban but the upshot of this proposal is a transition from a ban with permit reservation to a permit with ban reservation.
We simply had to take on board the fact that whilst we actually attained our goal in terms of content, of course the same could not be said of the financial aspect.
Of course Austria is a sovereign nation and of course we must respect the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a Member State.
There are fundamental advantages for the whole of Europe for it to promote cooperation with the applicant countries and to support border regions.
The Commission also intends to present specific measures in the field of crime prevention, so as to encourage exchanges of best practice in this area, and in particular the prevention of urban and juvenile delinquency; we further intend to present a legal basis for a programme financed by the Community for this purpose.
Is the Commission considering taking any action to allow in-house lawyers in all Member States legal privilege?
Of course, we cannot violate the founding values of Europe, and in this regard, the Italian Prime Minister stated that these principles are included in a treaty: he mentioned the Treaty of Copenhagen, which I, like you, have never heard of because it does not exist.
The first is a tendency for the Commission to embark on very ambitious programmes, particularly in third countries, without sufficient assessment of the practicalities of implementation and proper resourcing.
We will also be looking at this from the perspective of social and employment policy, and will be applying a number of tests.
If the European Community had done the same, a great disaster would have been avoided.
Thank you, Mr Poettering.
But how are we now going to enforce this if there is indeed a lack of inspectors, esteemed European Commission?
Indeed, the White Paper envisages that the Commission will retain the supervision and central direction of the new system.
It has already attracted much comment, including reactions from Members of Parliament.
Structural Funds - Cohesion Fund coordination
Furthermore, I would ask the Commission to please reconsider the limited opportunities that have been offered to the most remote and island regions according to the guidelines put forward in the communication.
Mr President, Commissioner, the storms that took place at the turn of the millennium should galvanise us into thinking about certain problems.
The car lobby was unsuccessful today and I am pleased about that.
To put it plainly, the level of state aid declared, roughly speaking, is generally stable during the period under discussion and comes to approximately 1.2% of Community GDP or more or less the equivalent, coincidentally, of the Community budget for one year.
We hope that this, at the least, will come about during the evaluation process.
It has been said more than once: justice delayed is justice denied.
I have referred to a series of issues which I will lay out in more detail, if you wish, in an appearance before a special committee on this matter, or when I present the actual initiatives in the coming months.
weighting of votes in the Council
I shall now, therefore, put this proposal for an amendment to the agenda to the vote.
It is irrelevant, as far as I am concerned, as to whether it is Serbs, Roma, Bosnians or Albanians who are threatened or killed in Kosovo.
Nothing has happened!
This is the citizen of a state' s prerogative, for it is the founding principle of a democracy.
We can be proud of monopolies and mergers supervision.
Not only the Commission, not only the European Parliament but also the people and the states in our European Union will have to find new answers to the question of how and why we want to live and work together.
The car industry is concerned about and half expecting repercussions, which is a serious problem which we must address accordingly.
Does not the Council' s representative think that this makes it difficult to participate in the democratic decision-making process?
The Commission is not putting all its cards on the table and is in that way repeating ancient practice on the part of the Commission.
The Commission accepts all of the contributions of the parliamentary committee and the rapporteur, Mr Koch, which are contained in the various amendments, specifically four.
Meanwhile, Mr van Hulten has been inundated with amendments, more than 100 amendments in the first round.
If, despite this, the coalition goes ahead, we would urge the ÖVP party members to ensure that the principles and values which underlie European integration are observed in political programmes, both in word and deed.
Of course they do, but they are not unlimited.
It has become clear that mankind continues to be unable to avoid natural disasters.
As you know, we can only include five items in the 'Human Rights' section.
Allow me to emphasise that this is communitisation, not renationalisation, of competition law.
In my opinion, funding for cross-border initiatives should only be provided if it is actually required by the regions.
OLAF, the European anti-fraud office is one of the most important instruments the Commission has for fulfilling its obligation to combat fraud.
They are wrong.
The Commission gives no soul to Europe.
This is why the Commission resolved on raising a complaint against these two banks at its last meeting, and I hope that Parliament approves this step.
And then when the work and the action start something emerges which the official policy, including ourselves at this level, could never have imagined would suddenly have developed so well.
They have now got to grips with "EU" .
Culture is at the root of our democratic beliefs; and an uncultured society is not going to sustain tolerance and freedom and democracy.
The INTERREG III programme, for which we have before us today the guidelines issued by the European Commission, pursuant to the terms of European Community Regulation No 1260 de 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds, continues these measures.
Now, we must ensure that the present legislative process is concluded successfully.
Twenty one years after Amoco Cadiz, this umpteenth oil slick, the seventh since 1967, shows the irresponsibility of our successive rulers.
Confronted with this threat, which carries with it the negation of the very idea which lies at the heart of the construction of Europe, nothing must deter us: not the legal quibbling about what the treaty does or does not permit, not the legitimate questions about the right to intervene, not the derisory respect for formal democracy, and, above all, not the feeling of powerlessness which grips us in the face of an event which we reject with all the force of our convictions but which we are powerless to control.
I have no intention of talking about past events; rather I want to look to the future.
The European Union needs few, if any, new instruments, and it does not need any new competences.
As long as the EU revolved around the internal market, only the body was being attacked. Now, it is the soul.
In my opinion, we should also create a threshold below which two significant components which characterise our economic structure should be placed: small and medium-sized businesses, which bind the European economy together, and social protection, which Europe has always guaranteed to the weakest parts of the economy.
We Swedish Christian Democrats also oppose any threats which have been made to delay the enlargement of the EU to the east if the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference is not extended very considerably to include subjects in addition to those left over from the Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam in 1997.
Could you please draw his attention to the fact that I have something to say to him?
Mr President, Commissioner, we have a basically positive view of the Commission' s White Paper on competition, particularly as regards the abolition of the system of notification and authorisation, but we are also puzzled by several things.
The Commission therefore welcomes paragraph 15 of Mr van Hulten's report.
Mr President, it is essential for there to be effective protection under criminal law of the financial interests of the European Union, more so these days than there used to be.
So far, efforts on the part of the Commission to ask for improperly obtained money to be returned only had limited success.
We must create forms of motive power which are not damaging to health and which are of such a kind that we can deal with the relevant waste, recycle materials and compete by means of environmentally friendly and fuel-efficient cars.
I have used chemical strategy as a good example of an area in which we need to do this.
President Prodi and Vice-President de Palacio and other colleagues have demonstrated the Commission's practical commitment to that.
In the Commission guidelines, few maritime areas are eligible for INTERREG IIIA. The amendments to the Decourrière report aim to make INTERREG more maritime-oriented.
Mr President, the fact that the different groups in this Parliament are tabling a motion for a resolution, in this ever controversial debate, which is the result of a broad consensus, seems to me to demonstrate the clear political will to decisively support open peace processes.
Nevertheless, we are left feeling slightly perplexed that they envisage an institution which will mean higher quality, without immediately planning how to deal with the repercussions of this. That is to say, they are neglecting the area of defence and therefore the possibility for the prosecution and the defence to work together effectively within such an important legal system.
I would have liked to see the same outrage in Europe when the socialists were prepared to make common cause with the successors to the misanthropic and persecutory regime in the DDR.
One could do so once or twice, but I feel that the UN donors should contribute to this as well, for there is a very large hole, as yet unfilled, that we are unable to fill.
Of most importance to Parliament, as the guardian of the budget of the European Union, is how to deal with people who work within the European Union institutions.
The fate of the Commission, of the whole European Union, rests on delivery of this reform.
We need to make it much easier to prosecute officials who are guilty of fraud and corruption.
I am awaiting with great interest the results of the eighth survey, which, according to the scheduled timeframe, should be being drawn up by the staff now, in January, and for adoption by the Commission in March 2000, to see whether the latest trends are confirmed.
In all other areas, I believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion.
Madam President, the importance of transport safety is highlighted on a regular basis in this Parliament and rightly so.
I would also ask you whether you believe that any other European head of government has ever been reminded of these principles by the Commission when they were elected.
Therefore I am putting forward these amendments to Parliament to give its support to the contributions of this type of programme.
It will become totally invisible!
This is positive because, in that way, the nine million cars which are introduced each year onto European roads will actually be processed appropriately, and this will benefit us all.
Even in Member States and cities that are extremely wealthy we have large numbers of people living in ghettos, in situations where there are inadequate facilities, where schooling is very poor, where the physical infrastructure is under-developed and where drugs and other phenomena are rife.
It has major institutional implications which obviously go beyond the specific area of competition; I am therefore not qualified to give an opinion, and this is obviously a matter for the broader context of the Intergovernmental Conference.
This is important in the interests of transparency and the overall effectiveness of networks.
But none of this hides the fact that there is a certain sense of impotence, because when the negotiators from each side fly back to the United States this weekend, we will have to remember that, for every 100 dollars spent on the peace process in the region, 60 are contributed by the European Union.
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr van Hulten.
You mentioned 'women' in your speech, but they are not referred to in the context of the strategic goals.
I want to make it quite clear that in this specific case I personally consider the Commission' s proposal to be wrong and feel that it remains to be seen as to whether we are truly justified in using the term "modernisation" to describe the content of Articles 81 and 82 of the White Paper, or whether in this case it would be more appropriate to use the expression "retrograde step" .
My group is especially attracted to the creative possibilities you signal in regard to the prospect of a White Paper next spring addressing the issue of governance.
This is an area in which we must carry forward and intensify our work, not just by securing approval for the EU strategy for the fight against organised crime in the new millennium, but also so as to overcome the difficulties associated with the divergence of views that exists, particularly at Council level, on issues concerning the fight against organised crime.
The third objective is urban and rural development, within the scope of a balanced territorial policy.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
I therefore, of course, support the European Parliament' s now giving the formal go-ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, everyone agrees with the obvious environmental and industrial importance of the instrument in question.
So the Tobin tax can only be effective if there is a sufficient number of industrialised countries which are prepared to participate.
It is time you took your job seriously, it is time for you, as President of the Commission, to box the Member States on the ears and force them to do their work and fulfil their duties.
When we are compelled literally to humiliate theatre groups, young musicians, pioneering activities in the arts, writers, to humiliate them and send them packing with a slap on the back and thirty rejection slips in such a way that they begin to perceive Europe as something foreign, something opposed, contrary and hostile to any effort towards cultural creativity - an area in which the European Union should make its presence felt because our mission is not just the euro, not just enlargement, nor geostrategic expedients, but also to encourage culture to flower in this affair of European Unification - then this is indeed a sorry way to end.
On the face of it these two proposals appear to be implementing certain procedural changes to facilitate freedom of movement across Europe and to give effect to the recent court cases Mrs Berger referred to in her opening remarks.
Mr President, the common position is sound, but it is up to Parliament to improve the common position on end-of-life vehicles.
Mr President, if we are going to discuss Kosovo today, as we have done many times before, then we should also start by taking stock of what has actually already been done in Kosovo, or of whether in fact anything has been done at all.
First of all, who is to bear the financial costs of this destruction?
He should perhaps use his position on the Tobin tax to ask himself why he is here at all!
Mr President, regarding Mrs Lynne's comments yesterday about health and safety in this building, I presume she was talking about the drains because there is a dreadful smell of drains on the fifth floor in the Tower.
Mr President, Commissioner, when we compare the frequency with which storms occur in other parts of the world with our own situation, we see that Europe gets off relatively lightly.
In practice, only 9 cases were rejected, 94% of the cases that the Commission had to process were not dealt with formally but by means of unpublished, non-legally binding administrative communications or on account of the expiry of deadlines, which clearly shows that the work of the Commission is subject to time-related, staffing and financial limitations in this age of globalisation and EU enlargement
Everyone was supposedly pleased about it but, in reality, we have made little progress.
If there are such rules, who has the responsibility for enforcing them and what are they doing to discharge that responsibility?
As a farmer and Member of Parliament, I have always endeavoured not to look at agriculture in isolation but to see rural areas as a whole.
We need to enforce the regulations and ensure that the "polluter pays" principle is applied so that financial penalties and some incentives are used to put pressure on both ship operators and oil companies to ensure that best practice is introduced.
Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel, let me say how disappointed I am, because I personally thought this problem had been resolved long ago.
Nevertheless, I regret that a clear alternative has not been proposed.
The Council is aware of the critical level of anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay to which Mr Ortuondo Larrea refers.
Here we have from the Commission a reinforcement of a hierarchy of oppression.
In order to facilitate achieving this objective, Directive 96/35/EC provided for the appointment of safety advisers for dangerous goods who would have appropriate professional training.
Finally, this discharge report is naturally addressed to the Commission. But this does not detract from the fact that the European Parliament should also put its own house in order.
Mr President, we take note that the excuse-making, reticent Presidency, which, in recent months, has prevented us from holding a debate such as the one we have been able to hold today, has come to an end.
National competition authorities were able to apply Articles 81(1) and 82 for some time.
Perhaps I may inform Mr Ribeiro e Castro, who asked me about this, that, as I wrote to the presidents of each of these most remote regions, the Commission did indeed request an extension of several weeks before publishing its anticipated report.
As far as Mr Papayannakis' question is concerned, in the 1999 Action Plan for Employment, the Commission proposed certain recommendations for Greece with a view to improving the efficiency of the Action Plan for Employment.
As for us in Parliament, I would like to remind you of the code of conduct between the Commission and Parliament which was signed in May.
In my capacity as Commissioner for the Internal Market, I am, in other words, opposed to all measures which hamper international financial transactions.
Relating to Friday: President.
Who wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to propose the addition of an item on Cambodia?
Never have the parties been so determined.
Mrs Frahm, the question that you raised is extremely important and we discussed it at great length during the last Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, in the limited time I have, I would like to express my support for the work carried out by all the rapporteurs and my agreement with many of the things which have been said here, in particular by Mr Jonckheer, who criticised the excessive gathering of information and the lack of transparency and socio-economic balance in the granting of aid.
I have particular concerns regarding the fate of SMEs which will lose part of their legal and financial protection, as is already the case, one has got to admit, within the new vertical group exemption for the distribution sector.
In its 1998 policy paper, Agenda 2000, the Commission set out two key principles on which rural development policy should be based: the recognition of the multifunctionality of agriculture and the need for an integrated strategy for developing rural areas.
From the outside, it looks as if the Commission has something to hide.
As far as I am concerned, at least, the principle of 'polluter pays' must be applied.
That is why we are indebted to the Commission for taking a stance that separates it from the rest.
It is not worthy of being brought into this report either.
Africa has the largest number of refugees in the world, the most overall poverty and a debilitating AIDS epidemic.
This trio's words were like music to our ears as Mr Ceyhun has said.
It cannot afford to remain outside the regional alliances being forged in this area, lest it miss out on a historic opportunity, and the same applies to our regions in the Caribbean.
The difficulties are once again being allowed to persist, to the detriment of the regions concerned.
Not because our delegation, our rapporteur and the chairman Mr Gargani did not work exceptionally well - they worked very hard indeed - and not because I have any strong objection to Commissioner Reding' s attitude - I think that, given the framework she was operating in, her attitude was particularly positive - but because of the negative and unacceptable position adopted by the Council.
What would you say to the forestry manager if his enterprise happened not to be in an Objective 2 region, or in a 5b region?
As the Court of Justice recognised in 1996, the steel industry is particularly sensitive to competition-related disturbances.
. (SV) Thank you, Mrs Schörling.
We now require an in-depth analysis of why regional policy is not producing the desired result in all areas.
The situation of AIDS in Africa now is so serious that more people are dying of AIDS than are dying in conflict.
This is in line with ongoing discrimination, which ignores Article 158 of the Treaty on island regions with regard to cohesion policies.
Mr President, I want to thank Commissioner Patten for his detailed account.
And secondly: are we reducing the European car industry' s competitiveness by means of the present proposal?
Of course, it is always better to make more funding available more quickly - and I for one will always advocate this - but I do think that this programme opens up good opportunities for quite a few programmes.
An environmental policy agreement has been signed on a voluntary basis.
My last comment was intended not so much for the Commission as for the Members of the Group of the European People' s Party.
What should we do with the shredded products?
It raises expectations, but it can also lead to disappointment.
Last October I expressed my views on the Hatzidakis report on the transport of dangerous goods by rail.
Certainly it is perceived de facto to be impossible.
That is a reduction of 3¾ % compared with the previous CIs.
And the Commission should be able to refuse new tasks if it does not also get the extra staff it needs.
Mr President, today' s debate is extremely important because the principle of competition has probably been the cornerstone of the internal market.
The Lisbon European Council is trying to take a new approach to the question of social exclusion and the link between social exclusion and the information society, economic policy and reforms.
It can count on the partnership of the Commission over the next few months.
It is a report which came about with difficulty and may well be too late.
It is important that they use their initiative and their own local expertise in developing this initiative.
They have lost their status, and a significant slice of the world market and hundreds of thousands of workers have been made redundant.
In order to compensate for this situation, the European Commission should be obliged to make regular reports to us.
Therefore, Madam President, I would like to repeat that the Commission has debated the action plan for the next five years and, when Parliament decides, - this week if that is the decision - we are prepared to come and explain the programme for the next five years and, next month, the programme for 2000, which is what we fully agreed upon.
I can testify to this remarkable work.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Koch, on his magnificent work and his positive cooperation with the Commission with regard to improving the texts and presenting this report and this proposal; in the end there is only one amendment on the requirements for the aptitude examination for safety advisers in the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway.
The objective is that these priorities should contribute to the better use, to the optimum and efficient use, as some of you have wished, of Community involvement, including, Mr Bradbourn, using, if necessary, the performance reserve which is specifically intended to encourage the optimum and efficient use of European public monies.
We see enlargement as a process of partnership, not a process of "them and us".
First of all, the initiatives which have been planned are completely unrealistic.
Although the Commission has itself approved the idea of legislation on proper administration, it has not now accepted a detailed proposal that has been made, but has decided to issue a whole set of additional guidelines on improving service.
I should point out that 70% of funding for the period 2000-2006, i.e. EUR 195 billion, will go to the less-favoured regions of Europe.
How could a Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection reject or ignore well-founded independent scientific advice in relation to food safety?
Our role should be to accompany, reassure and assist those who are fleeing dictatorships.
We need our governments to put up the financial resources needed to give us effective control and we need them also to stop dragging their feet when it comes to maritime safety.
I think that he is correct in this regard.
I want to ask the Council if it understands this warning, in view of what we have now seen in the working documents from the Commission.
A few salient points: the disciplinary procedures are not taking effect, especially when it comes to calling officials to account for their misdemeanours, including those of a financial nature.
I therefore believe that a European civil protection force, real civil relief blue helmets, who would go to areas in difficulty within the Union, as we currently have no emergency procedure, but also outside the Union if needs be, in Venezuela or anywhere else, is something that we should hope to see. I would like to tell Commissioner Barnier that in me he has an active ally for this idea which strikes me as noble and truly European in spirit.
My next question, Mrs Wallström, is when will you begin to apply this principle to legislation; to legislation pertaining to chemicals or other sectors, for example?
Our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was, after all, in overall charge of analysing considerable shortcomings and failures to carry out checks in cases related to LEONARDO.
None of the subsequent evidence or analysis has overturned that original assessment.
I would like to finish off by making an important point for small and medium-sized businesses.
I signed a letter yesterday afternoon, in the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament, in which the assistants were informed of this.
I hope we can revisit this issue at a later time.
The fraud and corruption scandals of the past have had a profoundly damaging effect on the confidence of Europe' s citizens.
To my mind though, what is particularly important about the ALTENER II programme are the new actions for relieving market saturation by renewable energies and those for implementing, supporting and monitoring the Community strategy and the Community action plan.
I am thinking of transport policy and regional policy.
Secondly, I also share the Commissioner' s observations and would like to encourage her to continue down this path.
We believe in Europe, while it seems that others have started the process of breaking up the Union.
Is it the case that there is low inflation and that there are low interest rates?
They may, therefore, continue to enforce their own standards regarding certain types of pressure vessel used for transportation, where there are no applicable European standards.
In this respect, Mr President of the Commission, I too should like to address the issue of globalisation which you speculated on and how it is perceived by large segments of the population.
And, in conclusion, Mr President, let me also insist upon the fact that, in addition to the measures proposed, there are also legislative measures and, most especially, adequate budget allocations to back up these political initiatives.
Malta and Cyprus have asked to join the Community.
Ultimately, we also need to achieve better cooperation, of course, between the European Court of Auditors and its national counterparts.
I welcome the continuation of INTERREG and the priority which it has been accorded.
This type of sectoral analysis pertains rather to the practice and competence of the Directorate General for Fisheries, under Commissioner Fischler.
We have, as the EPP-ED group, submitted all the recommendations of the Wise Men' s report in committee and many of them have now been put into the report, entirely changing the nature of the van Hulten report in committee.
What other practical measures will it take to put a stop to ethnic cleansing?
This solution is unacceptable because these car manufacturers have not had the opportunity to build the environmental demands we are making of them today into their manufacturing procedures and their manufacturing costs.
Of course, we felt the need to simplify and consolidate the previous programmes, but everyone hoped that the Culture programme could help to promote, for example, the unique features of each cultural sector, even - and I could say especially - of the unique features of less well-known sectors.
If they were adopted, many of the amendments which have been tabled would considerably weaken the directive.
This question will naturally be one of our key concerns, and the European Commission will not fail to take this into account.
For some time, we have all agreed on this notion, but we must also clearly affirm that these objectives will not be achieved without enlargement, even if this comes at a price.
According to the Treaty, one of the founding principles of this Community is linguistic and cultural plurality and there is no question of our overlooking the possibility of something as important as being able to read a judgement in our own language.
Consequently, we have to build schools, hospitals, and the whole infrastructure for the same people in the same country many times over.
It was because of the discredited policies of his own Conservative Party.
In fact, one only need look at the agenda of the IGC: the institutions, enlargement and European defence.
Mr Berenguer Fuster, we shall check all this.
Mr President, it feels quite strange to be standing here again today, as I have been doing at regular intervals for almost ten years, and all because of an accident caused by human hand and by a lack of human competence, and not by force majeure.
Culture and training simply do not exist in this paper, despite the fact that we need to create a real area of training and culture in Europe.
Mr President, a third of EU money is invested in funds for all kinds of development causes.
To answer the concern whether there is a risk that a country might concentrate all the funds on one of the categories suffering discrimination, I will say that the initiative states clearly that the Member States must submit one thematic category for each group that is suffering discrimination.
A code of conduct for Commissioners and their private offices has been adopted.
Dare we hope for a dual peace agreement between Israel and its neighbours to the north?
I know of the proactive attitude of the European car manufacturing industry which has set up an extensive research programme to outline a national information system for dismantling end-of-life vehicles.
Then it is logical to grant discharge, because how can the current Commissioner be blamed where 1997 is concerned?
That concludes the vote.
The attacks against Austria' s new government and the attempts to exert political influence in a Member State are an insult to the Austrian people.
In such circumstances will it even be worth having elections?
There are still, needless to say, many unresolved problems and unanswered questions, also involving the Palestinians.
Members will recall that the European Union is the largest financial donor to the overall efforts in bringing reconciliation to the people of the Middle East.
We are pleased about this and we congratulate the Council on these decisions, despite the fact that, for this House, the Treaty of Amsterdam included one disappointment: that of delaying, for five years, our role, our ability to participate actively, to democratically control this area of freedom, security and justice, as well as the role taken in it by the Court of Justice.
The only guarantee has been to seek prior favourable approval, through individual cases, which will take more than six or eight months to resolve, an excessively long period, which simply leads to problems of a lack of flexibility, affecting the generation of wealth and employment.
Only in certain countries, Germany for example, is there specialised jurisdiction.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the contents of this report.
The next item is the verification of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 13 January pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
This House is therefore your ally but not one which is too accommodating. You must therefore listen to our opinions, one or two of which I wish to express in my brief speech.
The role of the Court of Justice is still too limited and communitisation is incomplete.
I am aware of the Commission' s reluctance on this subject as it announced during the symposium on the presentation of INTERREG III last November.
Mr President, there is no doubt that the INTERREG initiative promotes efforts to achieve economic and social cohesion in the European Union.
Even stronger still, however, is the sense of insecurity, the feeling of being unprepared in a new world that is moving forwards, a world which is completely changing, where globalisation will even end up changing our points of reference.
That should be the starting point for our efforts.
I assume that the Commission will then be able to adopt the definitive version of the guidelines in March or April.
I should therefore like to draw your attention in particular to the inclusion of increased numbers of vocational training measures, especially in areas with high levels of long-term and youth unemployment.
In Europe, legislation is stricter and it is compulsory to inspect 25% of the incoming vessels according to the port-state control directive.
The Community' s institutions are obliged to work towards overcoming these border scars, which contradict the spirit of European unity.
However, the Commission believes that we must go further.
As such, while the precautionary principle does not involve the politicisation of science, as some have alleged, it does take us to the crossroads between science and politics.
There is no question of it allowing xenophobic, racist and anti-Semitic ministers to be tolerated at within it.
A radical policy to promote security and justice in each country is the best guarantee of democratic development in Europe.
That is why we said that we were in favour of the strategy that the Commission outlined here for the Seattle negotiations and for later ones.
However I believe that we should use this opportunity for Europe to set down a marker for less red tape.
Although her identity was noted and her position as a Member of the European Parliament was very apparent, she was still held in custody all day.
In this regard, we should bear in mind that the ERDF also contributes to promoting sustainable rural development and to creating sustainable employment in rural areas.
How much more pollution do we have to endure before the industry delivers us tankers with segregated tanks and double holds?
We are more in agreement with the amendment proposed at first reading.
The conclusions of the Theato report safeguard them perfectly.
In our society there is no such thing as zero-risk, but we must at least ensure the greatest possible levels of safety.
The Commission considers that the type of phasing-out proposed in the common position is easier to apply from a technical point of view.
As you know, Commissioner, our report argues that the codecision procedure should apply in the case of basic legislation on state aid.
The European Commission has approved a proposal for a directive on special arrangements in buses, coaches and other vehicles, so that people with special needs with mobility problems and people using wheelchairs have access to them.
How is it possible not to be outraged when a bank refuses to divulge the names of the Erika' s owners on the grounds of professional confidentiality, without governments reacting?
So, the concept for LEADER+ should retain all the positive aspects of previous programmes.
In any case, the European Parliament would be honoured to take up the call of the people to control the world in order to achieve a sense of well-being for everyone.
From your speech I will concentrate on what you have called the new governance, which you will use as a tool for reconciliation with our fellow citizens.
European democracy and Austrian democracy should not receive any lessons from anybody and certainly not from a Belgian Government that embraces corrupt parties financed by arms dealers and that appointed the leader of such a corrupt party, which was condemned by the court, to the post of European Commissioner.
Consumers in the European Union must know of the existence of the food authority.
I have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The implications for the environment and for the flora and fauna of the European maritime environment are enormous.
At the same time, it also wishes to acquire Cadou type reactors from Canada, which we now know have already been used for nuclear weapons in Pakistan and India.
Madam President, it is clear that we in this Parliament are very largely agreed on rejecting Mr Haider and his politics, but it is equally clear that opinion differs as to the most effective way of opposing this brand of politics.
That concludes the debate.
Financial control' s ex ante visa for each spending department will only be relinquished as and when the internal control system in a department is shown to be fully adequate.
This is the keynote idea on the new governance which we would have liked to have seen in your communication, Mr Prodi, but which is unfortunately not there.
This governance therefore needs to be a sensitive governance so that we can actually work together and understand that each of the institutions in the European Union, has its relevant role to play.
Report (A5-0108/1999) by Mrs Schroedter, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the communication from the Commission in the field of the Structural Funds and their coordination with the Cohesion Fund: guidelines for programmes in the period 2000-2006 (COM(1999)0344 - C5-0122/1999 - 1999/2127(COS))
In the context of globalisation and cultural openness which characterise the current situation, the European Union needs instruments that will allow it to strengthen its links and communication channels with neighbouring regions, particularly in Eastern and Southern Europe.
Our thinking and our future actions must focus on respecting these values, which truly respect gender differences, not on some postulated sexual equality, which has its own intrinsic contradictions. In any event there are no grounds for resorting to the easy option of a quantitative policy, based on the use of quotas, contrary to the idea of citizenship which the Members of Parliament in the UEN Group set great store by, and whose probable consequences would be the opposite of the effect apparently sought by Mrs McNally' s report, namely women' s participation in careers in science and research in proportion with their merit.
It acknowledges the fact that Turkey has signed and ratified the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and has subsequently concluded a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
I, personally, would sincerely like to thank Mr von Wogau for his commitment in examining the dossier on the White Paper and for the quality of his report.
We were offered three ministerial posts - you can read it for yourself in the newspapers - the very party that is being denounced as fascistic here!
I am pointing this out because I believe that our support for the Commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature.
(More than twelve Members of Parliament rise to their feet) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
However, this does not exclude the possibility that areas in Kosovo are contaminated by depleted uranium.
How is this to be done when, at the same time, the Commission' s proposal - which has been leaked, so the general public is aware of it - says that employees' freedom of thought comes before transparency and that it is not possible to have access to working documents, reports, drafts etc?
Measures taken must be proportional to the chosen level of protection - that is, we do not use the sledgehammer to crack a nut.
The debate is closed.
This is how we are going to judge the success of these guidelines: whether EU regional policy with a good, solid, enabling guideline, can open up new opportunities and allow our poor and structurally weak regions to play their full part in contributing to the growth and prosperity of the EU.
In order to do so, it will be necessary to improve discussion and the sharing of experience among the various Member States, to set up a coordinating body to implement a 'Women and Science' monitoring system within the fifth framework programme for research and technical development, specially responsible for gathering and disseminating statistics collected in the implementation of the framework programme for research and technical development regarding the rate of women' s participation in research activities.
He should find other ways of raising his profile than expressing views on such matters here.
The Communication from the Commission takes account of the need to adopt approaches combining a range of economic, social, and infrastructural measures.
I wonder why it is that the structural funds are not employed more efficiently.
On this specific point, we can perhaps offer Mr Bourlanges greater satisfaction.
Mr President, in this important debate on competition, I am speaking this morning with particular reference to Mr Langen' s document on the Steel Aid Code.
If the charterer' s liability entails a financial commitment, then doubtless the inspection will be enforced to a greater extent.
These are the procedures which caused the corruption scandal in the previous Commission.
They have our full support.
And the Israelis were certainly not impressed by the discourteous behaviour of Minister Farouk al-Shara in Shepherdstown.
We should take into consideration the sixth periodic report on the situation of the regions in the European Union, for which the Commission is responsible.
As an MEP from a border region, I welcome this third INTERREG initiative with great interest.
I therefore think that this is a great day for European politics to commence.
There are now 28 channels here in this Parliament, including two Greek, one Portuguese, one Finnish and one Belgian, but still no Dutch, and as many as seven English, six German and six French.
Mr Berenguer made a very accurate analysis, justifying the need and the relevant reforms for improving the dynamics of competition, but my concern is to ensure that the standards and criteria which will be applied through the corresponding administrations in the Member States, are truly identical in all regions.
However, the main concern remains ...
It is time to end the era which began with the Balfour declaration in 1917 and the Arab-Israeli war of 1948. It is time there were secure borders and political, social and economic rights in every country in this region, and that human rights were recognised and upheld in Syria, Palestine, Israel and everywhere else.
I myself took part in a meeting of the most remote regions on 23 November and, within the College, we considered that we would need several more weeks before being able to produce a report that dealt appropriately with the extremely serious problems and lived up to the expectations of these most remote regions. I would thank you for your understanding in this matter.
This condemnation is as unacceptable as the threatened breaking off of official contacts with the Austrian Republic.
The best way of achieving proper collection is to ensure that the last holder and/or owner can deliver the car to an authorised treatment facility without any cost.
Between these three programmes there must be a clear demonstration of the commitment of the EU to promoting cross-border development, combating the problems of long-term unemployment and supporting rural development schemes.
First of all, Mr President, can I thank the Commissioner for that very useful response.
We need this at European level and internationally; we need something like a TÜV, an organisation that undertakes technical testing of motor vehicles in Germany, which is compulsory every two years.
For there are considerably more than two million people employed in this sector.
There seem to be intractable technical problems but we are definitely working on it.
In this case, Mr Prodi, we certainly have a kind of "Ten Commandments" : a whole raft of issues are listed, but if I may say so, we are left with the impression that the Commission is afraid to make any decision regarding what needs to be done about any of these points.
(Sustained applause)
After almost forty years of being in force, these rules were beginning to show signs of exhaustion. For this reason, modernisation was essential.
If we slide away from the common position and try to divide the recycling costs, we will be creating a loophole: we will not have created a rational, clear system in which the division of responsibilities is in order.
I would therefore ask Parliament to make appropriate arrangements to ensure that its views can be formulated as quickly as possible.
Does anyone want to speak against Mrs Stenzel' s request, as supported by Mrs Ghilardotti?
We are debating nothing less than the presence in a Member State' s government of a political force whose doctrine and principles are incompatible with the conceptual and moral bases of the Union enshrined in its founding Treaties.
The European car population amounts to several tens of millions of cars which will have to be recovered even though they were not designed for recycling.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I must express my surprise at this debate on the international movement of capital and its possible taxation which, although it does not mention it in the text, appears to be an attempt to revive, as the introduction has done, the issue of the tax proposed some years ago by Mr Tobin, which our Group opposed, clearly and totally, during the last legislature, with a series of arguments clearly and coherently expressed by our President, Mr Cox.
In areas of high seismic risk, it is not enough just to have secure, earthquake-proof buildings. Speaking as an engineer, I can tell you that we carry out tests to investigate the effects of certain risk factors in extreme circumstances.
As I say, our amendments concern transparency, and I should like to emphasise the amendment which urges the Commission to propose uniform criteria and conditions for the type of state aids we consider to be lawful, specifically in order to ensure that companies can predict what their situation will be.
With eight out of ten people in Europe living in urban areas, it is right that we help our most deprived communities to tackle the all too familiar problems of deprivation, social exclusion, joblessness, crime, drug dependency and all the problems that are associated with that.
Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 34, 36, 38, 44 and 45 relate to the manufacturer' s liability.
TV pictures of the damage done to your coastline and wildlife, in particular birds and the already dwindling fish stocks, have brought back memories of similar British disasters, such as the Torrey Canyon in 1967, and have prompted many British volunteers to help.
The European Commission has monitored the environmental effects of the conflict from the beginning of the NATO action.
I really should like to ask that a review be carried out of the way in which sittings are managed.
Mr President, once again we are debating the European Union' s competition policy.
Why?
However, this does not mean that we will forget the criticism in the process.
At midday, Mr Gama referred to the financial and commercial support provided by Europe to the region.
Thank you for a very clear answer, the gist of which - if the interpretation is correct - is that the posting of workers directive entails an obligation on the part of the Danish state to establish a system of universally applicable agreements.
We need a body of food law, as you have said, and we need to agree this together.
The hurricane of the same name swept across Europe claiming numerous victims, mainly in France and Germany, but also in Switzerland, leaving a trail of destruction in its wake.
Madam President, it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure.
Food security programmes in central Asia began in 1996, following two previous years when the European Union provided food aid in kind.
The money from this pool, system, or however you want to picture it, would mean that from 2006 all vehicles in circulation could be taken in without cost to the last holder.
The Commission ought - and I have also amended this deadline to 31 May 2000 - to propose a legislative act on the establishment of an independent body which has institutional links with the Commission, for coordinating and supervising the legal investigative body OLAF.
He has delivered excellent work under pressure both from his colleagues and from the car industry.
However, politics exacts its revenge, and having been thrown out of the window by a debate on a limited agenda, it comes back in, as a matter of fact, through a door, and through the front door in the case of Austria, since a party is entering the Austrian Government which seems to represent a return to intolerance, xenophobia and forms of racism.
Recourse to the precautionary principle
Mr President, this, as Mrs Theato said, is a critical report.
Mr President, I would like to start my additional question with the Tibetan greeting, which betokens peace and happiness.
Finally, as the committee representing energy, we would have liked the issue of support for renewable energy resources from Cohesion and Regional Development funds to have been emphasised still more, thus, through a process of coordination, increasing the use of renewables so that the scant funding resources in the energy programme might have been compensated by means of these more substantial sums.
Mrs van der Laan' s report - on which she has lavished a great deal of hard work, and for which we are indebted to her - proposes that we should grant discharge to the Commission for 1997.
In this regard, I would also like to refer very briefly to the problems of the tunnels, which Messrs Rack and Swoboda have referred to, which, in the case of Austria, is doubtless a very sensitive issue, and great effort should be made to improve their safety.
The key now is to consolidate and make permanent the progress made to date. This would ensure that the peripheral countries and the ultraperipheral regions, the poorer regions in Europe, are in a position to operate successfully within the new euro currency zone, as well as within an ever-expanding internal market where the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital exist.
McCarthy report (A5-0026/2000)
What do we ask of this structure - the European Community - which is, so to speak, ambiguous and unique?
Globalisation of the economy must not be reduced to product and quality certification, just as the globalisation of politics must not come to mean levelling of values or dampening of hopes and enthusiasm.
I should really like to stress the excellent role which Mr Moratinos' special mission has played in the region and the funding which we have provided there, Commissioner Patten.
What is necessary is to throw some sand into the wheels of the currency speculators, stockbrokers and option traders.
There is no backbone, and no teeth.
However, we can see today that the conciliation end result quite clearly bears the trademark of the European Parliament throughout.
In any case, this idea must be encouraged, and it will doubtless be during this attempt to protect financial interests that we realise that we need to include a Community corpus iuris in the Treaties.
As far as that is concerned, I believe there are judicial uncertainties that need to be overcome.
One of the main problems is the lack of a functioning system of financial control.
When I speak of optimum utilisation, I am referring both to the national and regional levels.
At the same time, it was rightly pointed out that Europe must evaluate its role as a joint partner with developing countries, and strengthen its activities designed for fighting poverty.
Finally, I would say that in this matter we should learn a lesson from America, where hard work is still in fashion and success is an indication of ability and not the object of envy, as it often is here in Europe.
I shall only add that it would be the least that Total could do to compensate for the direct and indirect damage caused by the oil slick.
There is too often a tendency to criticise state aid harshly as a measure causing distortion in competition.
Thirdly, we have to bear in mind the synergies generated by other Community programmes, as well as the opportunities for sustainable development in the location or region in question.
Clearly we want to defend the countries of Europe but we also want to respect the autonomy of nations.
Before I begin I will take the liberty of expressing my consternation at the way in which Austria has been prejudged by 14 Council representatives.
Madam President, as we have heard, all the groups have a common political enemy in the Council.
There must, of course, be transparency regarding the selection criteria for projects and local action groups.
..., with all the rights and commitments that this entails!
The development partnerships within the thematic fields, which are referred to in Amendment No. 22, would enable even the smaller organisations to play a part in the EQUAL initiative.
We are looking, therefore, within the Structural Funds programme not just to see industrial restructuring but also to see a wider improvement in the whole of the economic base within the Principality.
In any event, these common values are in complete opposition to those held by the party ironically known as the Austrian Freedom Party.
I take it from paragraph 10 that the underlying preoccupation of honourable Members is that there should be a carefully managed transition.
Although there is much that is good about the new directive, it is nonetheless not without its defects.
Above all, it lacks drive in the sectors I have mentioned, for example, as regards the Balkans.
Subject: Compliance with Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers The posting of workers directive has still not been implemented in Denmark, even though the deadline has passed.
To respect my speaking time, I will confine myself to referring only to the broad outlines of my programme: a programme for the dawning of a new legislature and a new century, when it is right and proper to see Europe in a broader perspective, a Europe which is currently in a paradoxical situation.
I hope that this Community initiative will help serve as an example on how to resolve the problems faced by the elderly in cities.
Do you agree that the assistants have a legitimate case which must be heard?
In conclusion, let me say that this directive is not ambitious enough to solve the problems of present car numbers and it is rather hypocritical with regard to the fate reserved for the wrecks which still clutter our forests, lakes and gardens.
Recently, both Sweden and Denmark urged the Commission in the Council of Ministers to take the initiative and ban brominated flame retardants.
Will the Americans take the same view of this point as we do?
Tell the truth for once. You could not care less what the people of Europe want.
However, to focus on the European Union as it is today, and on the subject of government and governance - a word which, at least in Spanish, brings to mind the previous name of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, although it may be an appropriate word anyway -, the most important thing is that the European Union be provided with a good government, and, since President Prodi always defends his home town, Bologna, I would advise him to go to Siena for a while and see something which we all understand: the frescos of Ambrogio Lorenzetti, which speak of bon governo [good government] and mal governo [bad government].
There, however, we are concerned with that particular area, whereas it may be said that the present communication concerning the precautionary principle is horizontal in the sense that it concerns the full range of specific technical areas that are of political concern.
.
The aim at national and European level is to establish large action groups by tender, with a full description of the project for which external assistance is to be requested. We would expect from each technical office a full description of the product so that the work can be monitored and appraised.
Let me also once more thank my co-rapporteur Mr Leinen for our excellent collaboration.
In the face of coming enlargement the IGC must deal with fundamental reform and restructuring of the court system.
You have taken 12 pages for five years and 18 pages for one year' s work programme.
You have to see this as a tool for risk management.
Who would want this to happen?
Most SMEs have in fact less than 30% of the market share.
The members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism of course also identify a number of areas of the Commission proposal which they would criticise: firstly, for example, the insufficient thematic guidelines laid down for the development partnership activities; secondly, the fact that strict selection criteria for evaluating the project proposals will only be drawn up only at a later stage by the Commission and thirdly, the fear of excessive administrative and technical expenditure on project management by the Commission and the technical assistance bodies.
These ambiguities mask many misunderstandings, primarily about our values.
Is it not about time that we stopped expressing sympathy and started issuing enforcement notices to get rid of these ships of shame in favour of safe seas or we will be back again, later on this year, discussing a new motion for a resolution when yet another flag-of-convenience tanker sadly goes down spewing its crude oil all over the sea.
According to the Theato report, the European Public Prosecutor is needed, in particular, in order to better support the inquiries of the anti-fraud office, OLAF.
Sixthly and lastly, I would remind you of a point that I have already raised in my report on vertical restrictions, namely the legal privilege of company lawyers.
I just want to discuss it with you, no more and no less.
We demand of the candidate States and of the countries with which the EU cooperates under the Lomé Agreement that they should respect human rights and show tolerance towards their neighbours.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, I should like to start with a quote: "The Commission will continue to work towards establishing a European Charter of Fundamental Rights and draw up proposals to bring about an ambitious programme.
You are responsible for millions of unemployed and for millions living in poverty, insecurity and increasing misery because of your ultra-trade-oriented and ultra-liberal policies and because of the forced march towards the single currency.
They have more first-hand knowledge of social needs. They have more involvement in the problems and, furthermore, they know how to conceive projects and implement them effectively without weighing them down with bureaucracy, and thereby achieve better results.
In Helsinki, the governments approved the idea that, as long as the European Union consists of fewer than 21 States, a minimal reform would be sufficient. With more than 21, a deeper reform would become necessary.
But I want to add a word of caution.
I should like to make it quite clear: if the Golan Heights are returned to Syria, the problem in this region will be solved.
The thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully.
Mr President, I wanted to press home my explanation of vote by this oral explanation following on from the Schroedter report with regard to regional development.
You have fulfilled your objective for today, which is to answer all the questions.
Madam President, we can only endorse the general guidelines of the five-year programme and of the programme for 2000, set out with so much enthusiasm by President Prodi this morning.
A second point which I would like to comment on is the remaining information which may be of importance to Parliament with regard to the provision of macroeconomic assistance.
In this sense, the Commission must insist, and I should like to endorse and confirm this here, that the new Charter of Fundamental Rights become part of the Treaty and create binding, enforceable rights.
In relation to legal certainty, I endorse the point made by Mrs Thyssen.
We do need to rethink many aspects of current Community policy if the important and difficult project of enlargement is to be a success. We also need 'distinctive strategic partnerships' with our neighbours to the south and east in order to achieve stability and peace.
These are what are missing.
We estimate that the Commission' s new social action programme for the next five years will be ready at the end of this summer.
I do not believe that these signals will change the citizens' indifference to Europe.
In fact, the revision process has already begun for many bodies and institutions, such as the European Parliament, which in 1998 already issued and adopted a report pointing out all the current problems and deficiencies of the common fisheries policy.
We see enlargement as a positive sum gain for member and candidate states.
Concluding negotiations is not the same as concluding them successfully.
But if the Commissioner wishes to offer doctrine or good intentions ...
This is why we have always said that enlargement was possible only if the diversity and freedom of the peoples of Europe was clearly recognised, i.e. by adopting flexibility founded upon the respect of national sovereignty.
The specific target of deriving European added value brings the regional cooperation up to European level while retaining the cooperation of the various regional operators.
We are also envisaging the establishment of a European food authority by 2002 as an essential complement to the new food safety regime.
I mean the attitude where a person wants to get on in life, whether he or she is an employee, the owner of a business or an official.
We hope that 2000 will be the year for action, in the same way that 1999 was the year for expectations.
Such policies are necessary, and I would like to see them developed further.
In the fifth place, we need there to be a guarantee that these demands will apply to all ships using the ports and waterways of the European Union, and incidentally, that includes the candidate countries.
Of course, these are areas where the EU does not have any jurisdiction and nor should it have such jurisdiction.
The Commission, Mr Barnier, Mr Vitorino and several Member States are equally receptive to the idea.
As I point out in my question, one to two days, and not one to two hours, need to be devoted to the subject.
Lastly, an issue for which we are increasingly responsible, as the world' s foremost economic and commercial power, that is, Europe' s voice in the world, which does not simply mean adopting an active approach to the Millennium Round.
(Parliament approved the joint text)
The Commission has given its commitment to this task and the draft for the overall package of internal reforms documents this.
Joint motion for a resolution on the negotiations to form a government in Austria
With regard to the Judicial Network, significant progress has been made, in particular the launch at the end of 1999 of the dedicated telecommunications system of the European Judicial Network, whilst the Multi-disciplinary Group has developed a series of actions to implement the 1997 action plan.
This being the case, let me now come to the proposals made in the report.
It is there to generate reactions and the White Paper has certainly succeeded in doing that.
It would be a tragedy if their efforts were to be undermined by deficiencies in EU legislation.
As you can see, half-an-hour is not really anything like enough time for such a session.
We have taken note of this.
Some may take the view that it would be inappropriate for Parliament or Members of Parliament - or indeed Parliament nominees - to be members of the board.
Above all, Madam President - and here I will end - we must be able to express this in plain language, clearly, by changing to some extent the jargon which we use, because we cannot ask the Europeans, who are living through profound changes, to take part and show enthusiasm towards us if we continue to use a form of language which they find completely inaccessible.
We make our judgements from reports like this and the missions we send to check on things like this.
Subject: Proposal for a regulation laying down the total admissible catches for specific fish populations for the year 2000, and the case of anchovies in particular The latest reports from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea indicate that the current level of anchovy stocks in ICES zone VIII is critical.
Mr President, my compliments to the rapporteur for his in-depth report.
The other area of conflict is more difficult.
If you travel to the Netherlands, you will find that every last owner can get rid of his car cost-free.
On the other hand, as the rapporteur points out, in the name of competition policy, public monopolies are often exchanged for private monopolies, with the privatisation of important industries and public companies, as has happened in Portugal, with harmful consequences for the country and its workers.
Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted for this report on sustainable urban development, known as URBAN.
I welcome the statements by the Presidency of the Council and the position of the 14 countries which have rejected official contact with an Austrian Government that includes Jörg Haider' s party.
Madam President, on a point of order.
The ensuing document is both ambitious and bombastic.
As things are at present, the Golan Heights account for between a third and a sixth of Israel's water supply.
Firstly, an increase in police numbers would be an important factor in guaranteeing the safety of the civilian population and, in particular, in protecting certain sections of the civilian population. Secondly, an increase in appropriations would allow some officials who have important roles in the administrative and operational process in Kosovo to be kept on.
The low level of releases of Palestinian prisoners and the fact that the Israeli Government appears to intend halting implementation of building permits already granted, as well as not approving new ones, pose further obstacles.
I hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow' s vote.
And, on this subject, Commissioner, you did not mention how the Commission intends to contribute to the restoration of the natural environment and the natural habitats.
A very important proposal indeed.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposed directive on end-of-life vehicles before us today aims firstly to guarantee a high level of environmental protection in the Union, but also to safeguard the proper operation of the internal market in this sector.
I would oppose this directive on the basis that it is too prescriptive, it ignores what is actually going on in the car recycling market at the moment and it sets in stone methods which are not necessarily the best environmentally, and are certainly very damaging economically.
This is my first point regarding the policy.
The Commission makes only a passing reference to economic and social cohesion, to solidarity between Member States and to the European Union' s regional policy.
One final remark regarding the Internet and globalisation.
Globalisation is not only an economic process, it is also a cultural process, which is why we say: we want partnership in the world, we do not want the clash of civilisations which many are predicting, we want partnership, a meeting, exchange and peace.
(The sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
Mr President of the Commission, our objectives are one and the same: we want a strong Europe in the twenty-first century, a democratic Europe which is able to act.
That is why I want to highlight some of the issues that I believe the Commission must have at the forefront.
The importance of smooth-running, comprehensible work cannot possibly be emphasised enough.
The principle of competition must now be universal in its application.
I am extremely grateful for the work that Mrs Berger has put into these proposals which are politically sensitive and which constitute a legislative challenge.
With this text we are undoubtedly forcing the issue, since we believe that there are points that must be resolved and it is important for Community fraud to be curbed, to be crushed.
Can you explain why the approval given to the assistants was withdrawn at the last minute?
I, together with the European Parliament' s Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, are therefore of the opinion that the Commission has chosen the right legal bases and that the opposite view, as expressed in the report produced by the Council' s Legal Service, is inappropriate.
Today' s political statement on this issue was very positive indeed, and one which I welcome.
Like the rapporteur, while I am pleased with the Commission report, nonetheless I deplore the fact that it does not cover all aspects of the aid.
In the grand scheme of the directive, it is perhaps a minor point, but nevertheless a disputed one.
Moreover, it will only be possible to give the Commission responsibility for the tasks it takes on according to the actual powers it will be accorded.
Up until now, the Commission' s payments could only be made when the authorising officer signed the appropriate order and the financial controller gave his approval in the form of a visa.
It should no longer be the case that, although Europe is an economic power, we have no political influence because, when the chips are down, we cannot offer effective aid to areas which desperately need it.
Mr President, that situation cannot continue and needs remedying.
The other question is who should bear the cost.
In conclusion, with thanks for your understanding, Mr President, I should like to thank you, Mrs Schroedter, for the quality of your work and that of the committee, and to tell you that I am very pleased, apart from a few differences in our assessments of the role of the guidelines. We have discussed this and I have attempted to clarify my point of view.
Rather than using the word 'enlargement' , I want to talk of reunification which has much greater political significance.
The Minutes of the sittings of Thursday 3 February and Monday 14 February have been distributed.
But we must also play a political role and Mr Moratinos cannot play that role in this region on his own; the Presidency of the Council must take action, the EU High Representative for common foreign and security policy must travel to the region and we must do as the Russians did and invite the protagonists of the peace process ourselves.
Could the Commission please tell Parliament the circumstances and the groups within Article 13 (TEU) likely to be effected by such an exemption?
It could be said that the omission gives the impression that the Commission too has no idea how to provide maximum coordination between European Social Fund assistance, which is subject to review after three and a half years, and the Member States' annual national plans for employment.
This is wrong!
Mr President, I have a few very brief comments.
The calculations are in decades rather than years.
But those symptoms and those problems that you mentioned could be there and that could be the effect of the use of depleted uranium.
Indeed, the time has come to resolve a central problem for global stability.
Although we welcome the determination to create a system of exchanges between successful enterprises, the problems specific to each urban area cannot be dealt with in the same way.
In the case of a non-Schengen state, in the last paragraph of Amendment No 22, that possibility is contemplated, and is perfectly expressed, and I believe this provides greater legal security.
We urgently require a directive if we are to reduce these risks. The 15 clearly do not suffice.
And they must be consistent with similar measures already taken.
Of course there is also the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and work began on its wording yesterday, which I believe has started very positively.
Previous speakers have already kindly pointed this out.
Furthermore, three quarters of our farm workers are part-time and require supplements to their incomes.
There is absolutely no doubt that the forthcoming trip by the President of the European Parliament to the region will contribute to this.
Full employment is the best way to generate social justice for our citizens.
Mr President, ever since Plato' s 'Republic' , the Western world has regularly been tempted to replace government by the people with government by experts.
And finally, Mr President, frankly, I am not going to give examples, but there are many cases in which legal language is used with an alarming lack of accuracy.
This is necessary if legal inequality is to be prevented, and issues of competition will gravitate towards the court where the most lenient judgements are given.
At the same time, we are aware that this is a massive programme and that, during the overhaul in the next couple of years, it will be necessary to keep the actual results coming in, as before.
Brussels knows best.
Madam President, I am pleased about the fact that, in Austria, the will of the large majority of the people is being respected and that this formation of government constitutes, in my eyes, a huge victory for democracy.
I must stress once again the Portuguese Presidency' s earnest desire for political agreement to be reached on the scoreboard at the informal Council in Lisbon on 3 and 4 March.
Now it is, of course, possible to take the view that criminal law and criminal proceedings law are intrinsically matters pertaining to the law of the Member States and it is quite unthinkable that they should be governed by the principle of subsidiarity.
It is clear that this needs to be developed at all levels and it needs to recognise the needs of each level within the Commission.
This is one area in which I believe the Commission can be a very great friend to Wales.
Mr President, I believe that the precautionary principle needs to be quite radical in order to work, otherwise we shall always be confused by all the different interpretations possible.
European taxpayers need to be re-assured.
This is a common communication which was written by the three of us, David Byrne, Erkki Liikanen and myself, but it has been passed unanimously in the Commission today.
It must be stressed that in order to become eligible under the LEADER programme, local operators have combined forces, debated and prepared projects.
That is the crucial difference between our plans and those of the Commission, when it talks in terms of decentralisation.
Mr President, I would like to thank not only Mr Koch, but also the Vice-President of the Commission for the clear and unambiguous way in which they have declared their support for safety in the transport sector and acknowledged it as a priority.
Madam President, the European Union was built upon the idea 'never again' , meaning never again do we want to see xenophobia, concentration camps, anti-Semitism, heightened nationalism or war.
It is no good spending time on hobbies when there is a day' s work to be done.
This question covers several individual matters.
(Applause)
Recent events have shown us that these regulations are essential.
Mr Rapkay' s report also emphasises the importance of the international dimension with regard to competition law.
Curiously, very important documents had gone missing from the cabinets, even from those of the President and of various Directorates-General, and this is clearly something which should not happen.
What we need to look out for in this context is how matters develop in connection with the harbours in Gaza, the northern transit route between Gaza and the West Bank, further releases of political prisoners and implementation of the financial commitments.
This applies, above all, to amendments from the Group of the European People' s Party but also, unfortunately, to some of the amendments from Mr Lange, as I see it.
According to the related provisions in the Treaties the responsible legislator for establishing its Rules of Procedure is the Commission itself.
If there is, we have generated it in this House in the past year.
I do not think it is necessary for classic cars to be part of the directive.
Every year, we discard a huge amount of cars which contain many dangerous substances.
I am talking about the introduction of cultural mainstreaming in all policy areas, about consolidating and improving the European dimension of training and education syllabuses and about networking training and education policies in Europe especially lifelong learning.
I cannot accept this.
We now demand from the European Commission clear pledges concerning the following points.
I am pleased to see the quality of the seventh report on state aid within the EU, and to see that it will henceforth be an annual report, and also that the Directorate-General for Competition will be making information, both general and specific, publicly accessible via its website.
We also argued this in November 1999, and we would therefore refer to our explanation of vote of 18 November 1999.
The EQUAL initiative is not restricted to certain groups of people.
What are we to do now?
This message must be very clear; this is how we explain the way we shall vote tomorrow.
It is contradictory to offer aid to Romania and Bulgaria yet leave these countries unable to harness their greatest resource.
This is the European Union, not the Soviet Union.
Because it is political it is more sovereignty-sensitive.
It is really strange that legislation that adheres to the codecision procedure when it is being debated requires unanimity for it to be passed in the Council.
And I would also say this to you, Commissioner: please, deliver the beef even if it is British.
This is the reason for the request which we are putting forward again to establish a management unit for structural assistance in the Member States, which would coordinate the implementation and administration of aid.
(The sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m.)
We must not fear globalisation, but we must also make sure that we understand its political impact in the network society.
Under the system proposed in these pieces of legislation, third country nationals wishing to move to the UK under the procedures described, will do so by virtue of the service provision card issued by another Member State, thereby by-passing UK border controls.
We should not overlook the fact that, although quotas are an important point in recycling and recovery, they are by no means the only point.
It must therefore be able to count on the support of the Members of the European Parliament, who will surely rally behind this proposal.
We want a structure which allows every Euro to be spent effectively, and our accounts demonstrate that this is not happening at present.
It conflicts with established economic and legal principles retroactively to impose upon a manufacturer financial liability for its product.
These have, in fact, clarified that the freedom to provide services must allow for third-country nationals to be taken on as employees of cross-border services and this without having to obtain work permits.
We were therefore also very satisfied with the decisions which were taken on this issue at the Helsinki Summit in December.
Please therefore accept what I am about to say as being criticism made in the spirit of honest debate, and I believe that in this way our debate here today will be richer.
And this is the result.
In general, I am a great defender of cultural diversity but not in terms of competitiveness within the internal market.
I should just like to say, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that if I am not here when the Commission responds - not that I have asked any specific questions, but I should nonetheless hope that the Commission has been paying attention - then that is because the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities is meeting to discuss women in the decision-making process at the same time as the present debate is going on.
By approving this amendment, we take account of the fact that it can be very cold in the northern parts of the European Union.
It is not easy to combine those aims. There is no obvious way.
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
Having said this, our Group is pleased about the step forward which the compromise motion represents. This invites the Commission to present a report within six months.
Madam President, Commissioner, I should like once again to say a few words on the modus operandi and the ideological tactics behind this oral question.
One of the most frequent criticisms of Community competition law is its excessive red tape.
(Applause)
Firstly, this is welcome because it explains, to our fellow citizens, what we are intending to do and what we are already doing. We must also express our regret at the current situation and try to improve on it for the future.
We therefore accept the four amendments which have been proposed.
This is an arduous task.
(The sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m.)
The red-green federal government has not exactly covered itself with glory in the debate on the End-of-life Vehicles Directive.
Society is surrendering itself to the economy.
What is the Commission prepared to do to ensure that unit managers and more senior managers go through the necessary gender training?
Mr President, as chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I should like to congratulate the Commission, and in particular Commissioner Loyola de Palacio, for her reaction to this incident, which has really shaken the whole of Europe.
The fact is that the agenda said that we would begin at 5.30 p.m., and you can see the clock.
Because European car manufactures have been operating here for many, many more decades than companies from Japan, Korea and elsewhere, that would be a much greater burden on the older European companies and a competitive gift to their competitors from elsewhere.
We share these views because we are in favour of world trade, but we want this trade to be conducted according to common standards, common rules which would regulate world trade with one aim in mind. This aim is that trade should benefit development, and particularly harmonious development in which the values of citizenship do not only apply to the world' s most dynamic and competitive regions.
This report seems to me to be redundant, long-winded, confused and lacking in accuracy in the terms used.
In this context, let me applaud the important steps that the Palestinian authority has recently taken to improve budgetary transparency.
This is particularly important in order to increase the efficiency of the funds deployed.
There should be greater involvement of the private sector which will introduce financial reality as a perspective within the funding equation.
I regret this since we are having to take action because others have not done their job.
I hope this reference means that the reorganisation of the Commission currently in progress will not damage the mechanism for monitoring and implementing Agenda 2000.
I would also like to highlight the work carried out by the rapporteur, Mr Rapkay, who has dissected this dense and comprehensive text in such a concise way.
This objective deserves our total support.
We believe that, in the political design of the Union, other issues need to be dealt with.
I think I have seen three types of fundamental concern in tonight' s debate.
Since, in this case, transport costs are high, a system will have to be introduced which will need to be very much decentralised, because transporting an end-of-life vehicle over a distance of more than 100 km is not a profitable activity.
Madam President, I should like to know if there will be a clear message going out from Parliament this week about our discontent over today's decision refusing to renew the arms embargo on Indonesia, considering that the vast majority in this Parliament have endorsed the arms embargo in Indonesia in the past?
Do forgive me.
In connection with the issue of State aid, I would also like to take up one of the points raised by Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, among others regarding repayment of illegal aid.
Instead, we should be reforming and decentralising control.
He has just been preaching to the Group of the Party of European Socialists because they went back on a decision taken in a perfectly clear manner at the Conference of Presidents, and now he is doing just the same.
It is, however, perfectly correct that, when it comes, for example, to chemicals, we must ensure that we obtain a reversed burden of proof.
I would also like to thank her for her willingness to enter into dialogue with the other political groups when compromise formulas have needed to be reached in the face of this avalanche of amendments - and perhaps there are more of them than we expected - but which genuinely reflect the importance of the report we are now discussing.
Thirdly, it is very clear that increased preparations for enlargement must be undertaken.
You will tell me that situations of growth or shortage do not affect everyone alike.
The second proposal grants the same rights to self-employed workers who are third country nationals.
Neither is correct.
I am sure that Commissioner Vitorino will make certain that is so.
The European Union has an important role to play in the peace process, as all sides - Palestinians, Israelis, their Arab neighbours and the United States - have acknowledged.
For it is their very means of defence which are being eliminated one by one.
So, up to now, their access to the entire territory of the Union has not been regulated by Community legislation.
Madam President, this afternoon, in this Chamber, reference was made to a series of reports on the BBC Today programme this morning, which claimed that certain of my colleagues were running personal lobbying companies or somehow misusing their position as Members of this House.
Over 80 measures are envisaged.
For example, uncontrolled migration has not been given sufficient consideration.
Before the vote at the plenary sitting, new amendments have been tabled such as have already been voted down by the Committee.
The applicant countries' hopes are at least as important as the hopes of our current fellow citizens, who are beginning to feel bitterly disappointed by the way Europe works, as it is not resolving the most serious problems.
There is a large degree of state protectionism in the French market which is not found in the English market and is only present to an extremely limited extent in Italy.
Everything is done to make the lines of responsibility, the identity of the owners and real decision-makers as impenetrable as possible.
INTERREG serves principally to fund Community schemes to develop SMEs, education and training, cultural exchanges, action to combat health problems, the protection and improvement of the environment, energy, transport and telecommunications networks.
A break in continuity will have serious consequences for the programme and certainly a disruptive effect on voluntary and professional workers.
Let me, in this connection, welcome the presence in the visitors' gallery of Mrs Javette-Le Besque, spokesperson for the oil slick action group "Marée noire" , made up of men and women from the French department of Morbihan.
The debate is closed.
An initial conciliation meeting was not successful, because the Council would not at that time accept an increase of EUR 1.9 million.
We continue to fight against the trivialisation of the extreme right.
But, as for the future, since we must look ahead, I am extremely concerned to see how URBAN is going to be implemented in practical terms, and also to see what our experience will be and what lessons we can learn, because plainly these urban issues are going to be the focus of what may be, for future financial perspectives, a new European regional planning policy.
I saw some of Mr Kinnock's papers today, I heard some of what he had to say.
Both of them have done a first-class job.
Bearing in mind that the conference of donors for the stability pact is constantly being postponed - it is now set for the end of March - that no one knows which projects are actually in the pipeline, that one cannot tell how things can actually be implemented, and there is a steady stream of new press conferences, this does not appear to be the way to restore peace and reconciliation amongst peoples to this region of Europe!
Perhaps the Council will come to understand that cultural activities do the European Union good, not harm!
Let us have the courage to put together a ground-breaking directive.
The more powerful this Europe becomes and the more vigilant it is towards authoritarian tendencies in the Europe of today, the more successful we will be in striking at the roots of right-wing extremism.
An important question in this context is the future distribution of water.
I would like to welcome the division of labour that you have made and that food management will remain the responsibility of the European institutions, including the Commission and Parliament.
Would this be in the interests of Europe's citizens?
Precise application of this principle can only reinforce the actions taken and give our citizens a clear view of each level of competence.
The adoption procedure for the programmes is established by the general regulations on Structural Funds.
The next item is the debate on the talks in Austria on forming a government.
Since then, of course, this Europe with pretensions to federalism is now more than ever financed like the commonplace intergovernmental organisation it actually is, but which it refuses to see itself as.
(The President cut the speaker off)
The question of how best to make further progress has so far been solved through the idea of holding an inter-institutional congress which will open up an unbiased debate adopting a broad perspective and involving representatives of different interests.
As your Parliament is aware, the Commission is convinced that, without fundamental reform, the Community judicial bodies run the risk - in the short term - of no longer being able to carry out their task within reasonable deadlines.
I very much admire him for keeping his spirits up at a time when he was inundated with so many amendments.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Erika sank near my home and is still there, with 20 000 tonnes in its hold, the fate of which we are waiting to discover.
The main responsibility for increasing the use of renewables is to be borne by the Member States.
Between EUR 1 500 and 2 000 billion are traded every day on the financial markets. In three or four days, this can equal the total figure of annual global production, or global GDP, of approximately EUR 6 000 billion.
We will talk about this on another day.
It makes it impossible for those same Member States, at the IGC, to fail to give operational meaning to the protection and advancement of fundamental rights.
In conclusion, the document is not particularly satisfactory, and in some aspects is disappointing.
It is of course a prerequisite, however, that there be financial resources and means of actually crossing the borders physically if you have a disability.
Non-compliant vessels must be denied access to European waters, the responsibility of polluters, shipowners or charterers must be determined in line with the principle of the "polluter pays" , maritime supervision must be strengthened to prevent any degassing, thorough and reliable inspection of tankers must be required, an appropriate "natural disasters" budget line must be re-established for Member States and, in the meantime, Community aid released on an exceptional basis and the French departments affected by the disaster should be made eligible for Structural Funds.
Mr President, this is an extremely bad directive.
We will continue the interinstitutional dialogue opened with the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, and, at a more general level, with Parliament.
I would therefore ask Members to examine my amendment carefully, and I hope that tomorrow we will achieve a result.
It is therefore high time that we thought both about supervisory regulations and about transparency on the financial markets and their information.
I can understand your concern.
A large section of the Union' s population has strongly condemned this policy for being dangerous and anti grass-roots.
Can I invite Mr Elles not to put the cart before the horse.
I repeat that a change in the politics of the Middle East will require a gear change in the support that we shall be asked and expected to provide. I hope I can add that we will want to provide that.
The exact amount and timing of implementation of the second tranche will be decided in due course taking into account developments in Kosovo' s external financing needs and contributions from other bilateral donors.
We will continue to raise Tibet with the Chinese authorities.
The staffing system is too rigid.
The Commission is allocating 67 million pounds towards the INTERREG III programme, which will be spent on continuing the development of cross-border economic projects between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
One of the main demands of the demonstrators in Seattle was, rightly, the establishment of this type of tax, and this is not by chance.
A growing body of opinion in Scotland holds that view.
Thank you very much, Mr Cox.
A pilot programme was called for to bridge the gap.
A lack of progress in the final status negotiations should not jeopardise implementation of the three above-mentioned interim agreements.
It is about brominated flame retardants.
The van Hulten report is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough.
This is not the first time this has happened: Europe was once confronted with a similar transformation, an explosion of its markets, a change in its points of reference and a different view of the world.
I can assure you that those countries awarding flags would then take great care to avoid having to accept liability.
We are well aware that they cannot be completed within these six months and that it will have to hand over to the French Presidency, in the hope that a conclusion can be reached before the end of the year 2000.
This report is very good and our Group supports it.
This does not involve the concerns about the future of the Atlantic Arc but rather the need to integrate the principle of maritime borders into strand A on cross-border cooperation.
I hope the House will understand that.
I expect the Commission to exploit every available opportunity for parliamentary cooperation and to involve Parliament in doubtful cases, even given the Treaty status quo.
If we assume that, on average, a car has a life of eleven years, do Members, indeed does anyone, believe that we should wait for eleven years before we get to grips with this problem?
But for pity' s sake, and I am not saying this to you in an aggressive way, please do not present appropriations which have previously been earmarked under an unrelated regional policy as aid for victims of the storms.
And what exactly should be done?
Again, I must say that we are concerned here with an extremely unfortunate confusion of the old Commission' s accountability for 1997 and the new Commission' s accountability for the future.
Let me mention the latest examples we have seen: Holzmann, a company which receives considerable aid from the German Government; sawmills in former East Germany; and, especially, aid to shipyards.
Because of the situation in Austria, this is a dark day for Europe.
I also believe that Parliament' s proposed amendments should make it easier for the Council to adopt the directives as opposed to the Commission' s proposal.
Thank you, Mr Lannoye.
There should be a more frequent rotation of employees, especially at the top of the hierarchy.
Trade union representatives sit on the Disciplinary Board and the Staff Regulations Committee, thereby making it impossible to remove disloyal officials and preserving the Staff Regulations in their fossilised state.
From the point of view of economic growth, and therefore of increasing employment and wealth, safeguarding a competition policy in the Member States is becoming a crucial factor, and one that is certainly very important for our future.
It is the failure to define this scenario which is causing or encouraging the excesses, accidents and assassinations mentioned by Mr Alavanos.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for an interesting debate in which many important arguments have been presented.
The second principle in the Council' s common position is the retroactive element in the draft directive.
Particular emphasis is given to the point that women' s opportunities on the labour market ought to be improved and that to achieve this more crèches should be built.
That service will open on 1 May this year.
That because racial hatred, xenophobic violence, fear and rejection of what is different, have deep roots in all that is basest in humanity, they may re-emerge at any moment and take over any group of human beings.
We also need to follow this up and make sure that our rules are transposed by the Member States in good time and - even more importantly - we need to ensure that they are also applied afterwards.
The major challenge is, therefore, to create a modern and efficient administration without compromising on supervision and the rule of law.
I urge the Council and the Council Presidency to continue to protect the fundamental values of the Union.
Yet the whole of the Commission communication is based on the opposite theory. In this theory, on the pretext of ensuring the best protection for peoples, their margin of independent choice should be increasingly limited by new regulations, new policies or new, restrictive legal structures such as the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights.
First of all, the immunity of officials: this should be lifted if and when requested by a national prosecutor.
However, when it comes to what the future holds for competition, there are two issues dear to my heart.
Codes of conduct and ethical committees are not enough.
As early as last June the Commission financed a first study. It was carried out by the regional environment centre for central and eastern Europe and concluded that there had been no large-scale ecological catastrophe.
We discussed that matter and we were unanimous, with the exception of the PPE and ELDR Groups. As my fellow chairmen will recall, I even mentioned that it was not a matter of knowing whether one was for or against the Tobin tax, but of whether one dared to hear what the Commission and the Council thought of it.
I could reel off the list of disasters that have afflicted this industry in my 10 years in this Parliament but I only have three minutes.
And insofar as such studies already exist, to publish more openly its own comments with regard to the objectives of the Treaties, which are not only to ensure the competitivity of the European economy, but also sustainable development and economic and social cohesion.
Mr President, Mrs Theato is proposing institutional revolution for a twofold reason.
Please take account, in strategic terms, in the revision and in the allocation of reserves, of employment needs, because this, fundamentally is what the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds require.
Madam President, on a point of order.
It should also be noted that of the 19 departments, 4 already have administrative leadership, which represents an improvement on the situation there hitherto.
We still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the Union' s fundamental objectives.
If we do not do this, we shall have failed in our duty.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0003/2000). We will examine questions to the Commission.
The Tampere Summit was about combating crime.
The EQUAL initiative relates to all forms of discrimination within the meaning of Article 13, namely the fight against discrimination based on race, gender, age, and special needs.
Of course I, in no way, agree with the publicised statements of this right-wing populist and fully condemn xenophobia and any downplaying of the Hitler regime.
No, car manufacturers have been making colossal profits for years.
The White Paper represents three to four months of intensive work since the new Commission was appointed last September.
Malta is entering the accession negotiations.
That is transparency.
We know what the problem is: instability on the markets as the result of speculation.
In the designation of local URBAN programmes we need to make good use of local indicators and statistics on deprivation and health to enable us to more effectively target the most affected areas.
We also welcome Amendment No 13 insofar as, as a result of this, the card' s area of applicability is extended from one Member State to all Member States.
It has once again been demonstrated that conciliation is incompatible with the demand for unanimity in the Council.
Secondly, apart from the shipowners' liability, it would be a good idea in such cases to examine the liability of the charterers, for example the oil companies which are also responsible for causing ecological disasters like this and, of course, for restoring the damage.
As it enlarges, the Union needs to be strengthened through streamlining and demarcation.
We all oppose social dumping when perpetrated by fat cat industry, we must also oppose it when perpetrated by governments.
Finally, in this time of natural disasters, I would just like to mention the issue of the use of Structural Funds.
For this Union of ours is not a grouping of neighbouring nation states who are simply coming to mutual arrangements to improve their collective circumstances.
Today, as previously in the history of Europe, right-wing extremism is the result of insecure social and economic conditions of life.
The Union' s commitment to establishing an area of freedom, security and justice was confirmed at Tampere.
We will also need the fullest support from the Council and other key stakeholders.
That is why he deserves special mention!
Mr President, the report we are discussing here does not, in itself, entail any major changes.
We have to offer solutions which, while provisional, help to provide a faster and more effective system of justice.
Question Time (Council)
But there is a definite commitment to change the status quo which is totally unacceptable.
In other words, do we have ways of checking what is happening with this government policy in Greece?
Mr President, most of the time, the European Parliament, spearheaded by environment committees, does its very best to make a critical assessment of the proposals submitted by the European Commission or the Council, so as to improve on them from an environmental point of view.
So I myself will make sure that this aspect receives due attention.
As Members of Parliament, we must pay particular attention to the fact that the work begun to establish fundamental rights is more important than ever.
Mr President, the INTERREG programme is particularly close to our hearts.
In other words, what is needed is a number of accompanying measures if anything at all is to be accomplished there.
My group welcomes the fact that the union movement and environmental movement are expressly given their own roles to play, as their input in society is important in our view.
We also take the view that the political decision-makers must at long last change the habit of a life-time and ask the citizens in referenda, once the Intergovernmental Conference is over, whether or not they go along with the way in which Europe is to continue to develop in the future.
In addition, we as a European Parliament are going to have to take action in relation to Economic and Monetary Union, for there is a lack of supervision in this area.
In any case, this emerges from the favourable schedule we decided upon.
Only on the strong foundation of the single market will the agenda of enlargement be successfully achieved.
But, most importantly, it is only ever man that makes the mistakes as far as the nature-mankind relationship is concerned - despite the fact that the same mistakes have often been made down through the centuries - and never nature, for nature cannot make mistakes.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that, with the final decision of the Council, we can release these funds and make a positive contribution to maintaining the considerable effort being made in Kosovo by different parties, so that we might achieve that situation of greater coexistence and peace which we all wish to see.
In this regard, Madam President, I would like to say that we should remain aware and watch our language.
There have only been nine rejections.
However, it seems to go against all reason and intelligence that 80% of the anchovies, which, until 1995, were being fished in the Portuguese fishing grounds, through an agreement between that Member State - Portugal - and France, should now be fished in the Bay of Biscay and that the Council of Ministers wishes to maintain that this has no effect on the anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay or the Cantabrian Sea.
I must add, however, that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the Member States.
This would at least mean 400 kg times 200,000 km less transportation.
As you know, there are 22 guidelines on which each country is evaluated.
Given the oral amendment, we felt we could vote in favour and that is what we have done.
As important is the fact that Austria' s forces of democracy should be given support, as none of us wishes to isolate the country.
Once we have done that, our reaction to the ecological disaster is fully justified.
This is part of risk management.
The foodstuffs legislation in the European Union is the most ambitious in the world.
There is no doubt that abandoned cars represent a serious threat to the visual and physical environment.
No longer should there be a place in democracy for the worship of, or for this fatalist approach towards, market forces as adopted by the liberals - and I am sorry that Mr Gasòliba I Böhm has left - as this will only lead to its ruin.
The decision to establish a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be welcomed but it is difficult to predict whether its content and legal scope will be restrictive or symbolic, including all people, whatever their nationality, or excluding some.
Question No 41 by (H-0813/99):
Indeed that is something extremely useful that we could have done in Russia throughout the 1990s to prevent the disintegration of that state.
The reason our timetable includes the drafting of this Charter is because we are at a key point in our history. Our Union needs to redefine the values on which it is based, both within its current borders and also with a view to the imminent enlargements which we earnestly desire, but not under just any conditions.
Would you also propose that the Commission could give interim payments for instance, similar to the one that the British farmers are asking for at the moment?
A proposal can be made, a proposal should be made, on the basis of Article 280 of the Treaty, by the middle of this year.
Not only the Alpine region, but all our countries are involved: the conditions are being created whereby democracy and European civilisation may once again come under threat.
In order to grant small and medium-sized companies greater security, the European Commission itself needs to draw up an exemption regulation for small and medium-sized businesses so that, alongside vertical exemptions, horizontal exemptions will also be possible.
These are three areas in which many Danish companies are experiencing major problems and are being squeezed out of their markets.
It must be known.
Directive 96/35/EC was a response to this requirement.
Let us not forget that when these policies are effective, they also benefit European citizens by directly improving their quality of life.
It seems to me that in order for the European Union to demonstrate that it has a role in helping the citizens of the European Union it must give assistance to Member States to demonstrate that the Union works for these citizens and their families.
Madam President, coinciding with this year' s first part-session of the European Parliament, a date has been set, unfortunately for next Thursday, in Texas in America, for the execution of a young 34 year-old man who has been sentenced to death. We shall call him Mr Hicks.
In a nutshell: there were programmes being run for which there were insufficient staff resources available.
We need specific proposals, both for legislation and for action programmes associated with the fight against discrimination and the formation of free and fair societies.
I shall consult the parliamentary services to see how we can find a solution.
McNally Report (A5-0082/1999)
I also regret the fact that we had an extremely short period to work in, as the text was examined in parliamentary committee on 24 November last year and then on 26 January. I further regret the fact that neither the regions, nor the representative regional organisations were involved in framing the programme.
Now that financing is readily available across national boundaries without any difficulty the same approach will obviously be strictly necessary, all the more so as we consider that an enormous amount every single day is employed in speculative transactions.
Of course, the scientists do not all see eye to eye on this yet, but the majority of them are fairly convinced that if we continue to emit greenhouse gases as we are doing, these storms will, of course, hit us much harder still at the dawn of this new century.
Finally, I would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport.
But there is an art to that as well.
I would say to Mr Bourlanges and to those who have raised this issue, that this is not the fundamental problem, although we recognise it totally.
This indeed, is the aim of the sixth Steel Aid Code, but at the same time it is important to avoid any infringement of the conditions of competition and any serious disturbance of the markets, hence the importance of regulating such aid.
This situation can be achieved over a period of time.
The same goes for enlargement as an end in itself, without it being linked to a reform to make the European Union and its structures much more efficient, and to proposals that the Commission could have made at the IGC.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Members of the Commission, five months after its coming into office, the Commission committed to paper the direction in which it aims to steer the European Union.
Three amendments can be partially approved, and one can be approved in principle.
- (SV) The parliamentary process concerning this question has been confusing, to say the least.
The European Commission draws up the list of eligible regions for strand A and strand B. It bases its assessment principally on the map of regions eligible during the previous programming period.
By shifting the criteria from the regions to the Member States, we can avoid a great deal of problems later on.
The text is overambitious, and Britain' s Labour MEPs believe that the IGC should primarily deal with the "Amsterdam left-overs" in order to prepare for enlargement, and not expand far beyond these.
As a Member for the Basque Country, I would like to express my total support for the implementation measures for fair competition in the market.
Mr President, concerning item 11 of the Minutes on the order of business, we agreed yesterday to have the Bourlanges report on today's agenda.
Of course capital markets need clarity - that is actually the idea.
I would therefore strongly advocate internal reform which delivers fast and concrete results at a social level. This gives the citizen a sense of recognition, here in Europe and elsewhere.
At the Santa Maria da Feira European Council meeting in June, the Portuguese Presidency will present a report on this issue specifically in the light of the information the Commission presented in its White Paper a few days ago.
The agenda is designed to transfer vital parts of society' s criminal law, policy on crime and administration of justice to the EU' s control.
This will help us to restore the credibility of the EU and the confidence of citizens that Europe can deliver local action to solve local problems.
Surely we are all familiar with the Treaty of Rome and know that one of the four freedoms is the freedom of capital movement.
Consumers see their standard of living being eroded, poverty spreading and the public sector and production base in most countries in the Union being dismantled and dissolved in the name of unadulterated and catastrophic competition, in the name of the absolute market economy and the promotion of the monopolistic interests of big business.
Commissioner, as time is very short, I would like to pick out the seven points which we feel, and you have already mentioned some of them, are essential to work on: double-hulled vessels in our waters as soon as possible and the strictest possible state control of ports. In particular, we must ensure that classification societies are compelled to make their reports public, as currently, we do not have access to them.
Mr President, I too would like to welcome the President-in-Office to the Chamber.
It is precisely this which, in a sense, is hindering the important process of developing codecision within the legislative programme.
I have two major concerns, however, about the development partnerships.
Madam President, the revenue basis of the Tobin tax is said to be made up of very short-term exchange transactions.
What we need to do now is to deal with the fallen timber as swiftly as possible.
The issue of brominated flame retardants is an important one.
We had high winds and unprecedented, prolonged rainfall which, adding to existing difficulties, resulted in thousands of acres being submerged, sometimes, in up to 15 feet of water.
I agree with Mr Leinen that the wording of the initiative is indeed very difficult and hard to understand.
We must therefore take these memorandums into consideration and produce an extremely thorough piece of work.
The Commission has also stepped up its planned support for regional cooperation projects between Israelis and Arabs.
For the storms will have major implications for the forestry industry in all areas of Europe, and I believe we need, in the long-term, to give thought to how problems of this kind are to be dealt with in future.
We have to take a decision now regarding the Commission' s good intentions, but there is still no structural outline for these good intentions.
While we have a number of months to the end of April to debate the issue and garner our views, I recognise fully that this is also a very tight timeframe.
The time has come for Israel to fulfil its promises of old and definitively withdraw from the occupied territories, at last recognising once and for all the authority of Palestine, whose resumed diplomatic activity will have a secure future while it is under the wise leadership of Yasser Arafat.
There must not be any repetition of cases of parallel projects on both sides of a border.
The concept of transparency stands out in the report.
State interference in the economy is, even today, still to blame for the most serious hindrances placed in the way of the market, competition and freedom of choice for European users and consumers.
Mr President, the Israeli author, Amos Oz, managed to capture very aptly the icy atmosphere at the negotiating table between the Israelis and Syrians recently.
In conclusion, while welcoming Commission approval for LEADER+, I am concerned about the time delay between the ending of LEADER II and the commencement of the new programme.
We must be tougher on vessels flying flags of convenience, not because they are necessarily bad boats, but because amongst these boats there are many bad ones.
I want to see a genuine internal market operating in the control arena.
Other amendments are intended to simplify the administrative procedures, for example by authorising Member States to designate a single authority responsible for issuing cards.
Two hundred years ago it was liberty, equality and fraternity, and things went along very well until the governments of the left raised equality above the others.
By means of this extraordinary procedure, Parliament is stopping itself from placing liability for the arrangements in 1997 squarely where it belongs, namely with the previous Commission.
We have to state again that there is still no confirmation that depleted uranium was used in the conflict and no depleted uranium has been detected in the clean-up of Kosovo.
We have had a great deal to say today about Europe as a community of values, about tolerance, human dignity, human rights, a positive approach to the enlargement process, transparency and respect for each other.
It would be very beneficial, not just for Tibet and for all those who believe in peace and stability in Asia, but it would also be greatly to the credit of the Government of the People's Republic of China if they were to respond to those attempts to begin a dialogue.
We all know that!
Is it the case that a risk assessment is firstly to be carried out, including a cost-benefit analysis?
The matter is still open.
We have taken almost eleven months - President Prodi was nominated at the Berlin Summit in March last year - to establish a legislative programme. This is not entirely President Prodi' s fault.
The report is hereby withdrawn from the agenda.
The debate is closed.
Does this not stand in stark contradiction to the guideline on employability?
This calls into question the agreement which Parliament reached, with great difficulty, with the Council in December, according to which, when the Commission presents a multiannual programme for reconstruction, the financial perspectives would be reviewed where necessary.
The overall aim of the reforms must be to create a strong, honest European public administration equipped to carry out its tasks in an effective and efficient manner; an administration in which officials are provided with the means to carry out their tasks and are held fully accountable at all levels; an administration that recognises and rewards merit and encourages officials to develop their full potential.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for your statement.
Anyone who has been in an old car knows that this is to the detriment of the consumer and the amateur mechanic.
Anything related to economic growth and infrastructure usually scores quite highly, but social goals and environmental causes often cannot count on approval.
- (FR) Mrs McCarthy, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the URBAN Community Initiative is being continued as this aims to support the social and economic conversion of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis, all with a view to achieving sustainable urban development.
It also forgets that enlargement means that we must get regional policy right. Unless we achieve real convergence, the cohesion of the European Union itself will be at risk.
Secondly, by adopting this directive we achieve a) an increase in safety when dangerous goods are both transported and transhipped; b) a reduction in distortions of competition resulting from wide variations in national training structures and training costs and c) equal opportunities for safety advisers on the European labour market.
The common position offers an acceptable compromise but its rather delicate and precarious nature somewhat restricts the opportunities for improvement, and puts the whole directive at risk.
What sort of impression will an interested public, as well as the rest of the world, have of this five-year programme?
The Food Safety Authority's situation is quite different.
The first measure would in fact cancel out the effects of the latter.
You cannot legislate for consumer confidence. It is something that is earned over a period of time.
The second point I would like to make - and which I would have wished to make yesterday before the vote - is that this Parliament, as other speakers remarked yesterday, can only really have an effect if it works in close cooperation and synergy with the European Commission.
It is all the more unacceptable for such a thing to occur twenty years after the Amoco Cadiz disaster, despite our saying at the time and many times since, "Never again!"
It is clear that the Council, for the moment, has not opted for enlarging with deep reforms in place.
National states would thus become the secular arm of the Commission regarding observance of the application of rules which they do not control.
The next item is the Commission statement on recourse to the precautionary principle.
This is why it is so hard to strike a balance, not only between the different countries or the different components, but especially between the different groups listed in the programme, and in fact this is what has preoccupied us to date.
I will tell you a few things we should do.
So I will make brief mention of the package against discrimination and take this opportunity to ask the competent parliamentary committees to appoint their rapporteurs so that we can move ahead with the anti-discrimination package as soon as possible.
We need a Tobin tax to give us a fiscal instrument with which we can intervene.
Mr President, it is pleasing that, despite certain delays and problems, the peace negotiations are going on both between Israel and Palestine and between Israel and Syria.
I would therefore urge my colleagues not to support Amendment No 38 of the Christian Democrats and Amendment No 45 of some of the socialists.
For example, whilst the disparities between the regions have increased rather than decreased, there has been a certain amount of convergence between the Member States themselves in this respect.
The work in relation to BSE in Member States and the establishment of random testing to identify levels of infectivity in Member States is ongoing, I know that Mrs Roth-Behrendt has asked me this question before and I said I thought it was coming along quickly but I understand it is in inter-service consultation in the Commission and work is currently under way.
Mr President, this is an important and urgent matter, and Parliament is complying with a request from the Commission to come to a decision quickly, because today, you must realise, men and women are dying in Kosovo quite simply because the temperature is 25 degrees below zero, these people are doing a great deal of work to ensure a minimum of maintenance and they have not been paid.
I do not want to see a two-tier European Union built.
Lastly, I would like to stress the issue of liability. Not only in terms of maximum sums insured, which I believe should be similar to those in the United States.
The Community action programme for civil protection, established by a Council decision on 9 December, was launched on 1 January 2000.
In this regard LEADER has established itself as an effective development initiative.
This is an appeal to the majority of Austrians who have not voted for Haider, who have voted for the clearly democratic options, committed to Europe, and I must point out that Mr Schüssel may have been Minister for Finance, but Chancellor Vranitzky also contributed to Austria' s integration process.
As with many other provisions of the Treaty, Articles 81(1) and 82 have, after all, been applied for decades by national authorities and judges, and I do not feel that this has created serious problems.
This is a scenario whereby the European Union has a membership of over 25 Member States.
These could include withholding Community financial support or recouping funding already committed to a Member State.
The Council must realise that, if we want the future of the European Union to involve a form of enlargement built on firm foundations, the next Intergovernmental Conference must go much further.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have asked to speak again so that I can say a few more words at the close of this debate.
We hope that we can count on the support of Parliament, and - why not say it - of the Council to secure these resources and to achieve these objectives, so that the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice becomes a reality as soon as possible, thus allowing us all to contribute, in a spirit of interinstitutional cooperation, to the realisation of this project, which is, without a doubt, the "jewel in the crown" of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Finally, will this whole decision-making process be carried out in a transparent, public way?
It fails to take in the bigger picture and when my fellow delegate from the Greens says that this is the first time that the European Parliament has toned down a common position, I really must object, because quite simply, it is not environmentally meaningful to restrict the use of modern, low-consumption cars such as the 3-litre car, which contain a great deal of plastic, by means of rigid, high recycling quotas!
It is too high a price, not only for the Member States already in the Union but also for the states which want to join the Union.
If we could communicate this it would be a very interesting thing to do.
There is something else that we are keen to develop and this is very important for a state under the rule of law. We have 130 judges and public prosecutors, who have now been sworn in, and who are ready to take up their work of dispensing justice, with a view to enriching the culture of tolerance there a little, and to at least being able to track criminals down and then secure convictions.
This is also an important point.
We fully support the innovative approach towards setting up development partnerships and organising the exchange of experience at European level as an integral part of the EQUAL programme.
Finally, on the subject of modernising the implementation of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty, we do not think that decentralised application would necessarily be going in the right direction.
These amendments can all be approved.
The Commission hereby adopts this amendment and accepts it.
(Applause, heckling)
We cannot maintain a situation in which we allow ourselves to destroy the opportunity to take political action.
Of course, this cannot be done in one country; it cannot be done within the single currency area, but it could be done at international level with global cooperation.
This process will continue in accordance with the financial spending guidelines laid down by the EU leaders at their Berlin Summit last year, which were supported by Parliament at its last May plenary part-session.
The financial amount finally allocated to the programme is also a considerable improvement on the Council' s proposal at second reading which we found completely unacceptable and we have made quite a lot of progress there.
This proposal for a directive attempts to establish conditions for the posting of workers who are third-country nationals, for the provision of cross-border services.
Would it be appropriate for you, Madam President, to write a letter to the Sri Lankan President expressing Parliament's regret at his and the other violent deaths in Sri Lanka and urging her to do everything she possibly can to seek a peaceful reconciliation to a very difficult situation?
I therefore voted against paragraph 2 of the resolution, which presupposes that all parties have respect for human rights.
.
Then there are differences between the national legal requirements of the individual Member States, together with protracted or even unfulfilled requests for mutual assistance in law enforcement.
I therefore appeal to the President of this House and the President of the Commission for them to stand surety for immediate compensation from the U.S. authorities, and this is in order to uphold the rights of the victims' families.
We look forward to reading the full Commission proposal on reform and we look forward to working out the detail alongside the Commission because, unlike what Mr Elles has just said, the Commissioner has made a commitment to discuss it with Parliament between now and 1 March.
This human diversity is our main sources of wealth, and this is the reason why it is my duty to track down and to condemn anything which may be harmful to it, wherever it may exist.
In any event, I appreciate the vigilance of your Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in this matter.
It is not an acceptable procedure that measures to improve the environment, which are in keeping with the Commission' s guidelines, cannot be taken because these are considered to constitute prohibited aid to shipyards.
This makes it necessary to also take account of the ways in which materials and packaging are affected by cold of this kind.
With regard to the ambitious objectives and, above all, the Commission' s important step of adopting this broadening of the process of negotiation and integration, I would like - and my Group would like - more clarification in relation to the revision of Agenda 2000.
The economy has to be strong for us to be able to attend to the problems of our fellow-citizens and our environment.
It should also be much easier to sack inefficient and incompetent employees.
Mr President, Commissioner, permit me, first of all, to make reference to two facts.
We understand that, and we recall too the sometimes short and selective memory that he has of Nazism.
The regulation pretends that there is one, but there is not.
Since the author is not present, Question No 13 lapses.
I believe that this is the first objective for us to pursue.
We must argue for equality of the sexes, the famous 'gender mainstreaming' , which is one of the least developed questions in the Prodi Commission' s programme.
I would like to say, with regard to Mr Swoboda' s comments on the activity of the CEN, that we are urging them to speed up their work as much as possible because it would be terrible if, despite the new deadline, we were to find ourselves after a year and a bit with the same difficulties because their work has not been concluded.
We are astonished by the political naivety of people who, with thoughtless words, have bolstered Mr Haider' s position in Austria and made the Union look ridiculous, riding roughshod over Article 7 of the Treaty by announcing unconstitutional measures.
I have been here for 20 years and found absolute trust between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
That is just the way things are, however.
The rules pertaining to the steel industry were drawn up on 18 December 1996.
It is a very important question indeed which Jonas Sjöstedt and others have asked.
Protection under criminal law of the Union's financial interests
I am happy that we have been able to deliver so quickly.
The Erika disaster must be the last in the series.
The INTERREG I programme between 1989 and 1993 and the INTERREG II programme between 1994 and 1999 have proved an absolute success in terms of bridging closer social and economic development between bordering Member States.
Many speakers have underlined this.
One of the precepts of democracy is that we should not disapprove of electoral outcomes but respect them, and that is why we must respect the fact that the Austrians, by virtue of their political culture, voted as they did.
Let us look at an example. Rover in Great Britain, if they were responsible for all end-of-life cars, would actually be responsible for 5.8 million cars within the European Union and would immediately have to set aside EUR 250 million against recycling costs, whereas a manufacturer from Korea building similar cars would only have to shell out peanuts, as a representative of Deutsche Bank put it.
However, this contradicts the stated aim of the general objectives for decentralised action plans at the level of local authorities and rural areas. However, at the same time, participation by those actually discriminated against, such as asylum seekers, immigrants and so on, is rendered impossible or merely symbolic.
(The Minutes were approved)
It is fine, in principle.
What we need to avoid doing in the future is compromising competition conditions and disturbing the balance in the markets.
This is now the opportunity to reiterate to Mr Patten, Mr Solana and Mr Moratinos how much we are relying on their efforts to include Europe in the search for a peaceful solution to the conflict.
Mr President, I have two questions. I shall try to be very brief indeed.
Hence there is certainly every reason to introduce more far-reaching regional provisions.
This will provide the opportunity to establish new principles or to return to the more radical changes which have been discussed.
We therefore must not leave it out of innovative and pilot Community programmes which will allow the new geographical and economic map of Europe to be defined.
But, Mr Marinos, in the EU context, culture is an issue which is repeatedly raised in connection with IGC agendas.
It is an extremely moving account, not just of his responsibilities in and towards Tibet but also of his spiritual views as well.
We look forward to working closely with this House on the finalisation of the reform strategy package and then, most important of all, working together with this House on its implementation continually through the years that will be required on such complexities.
Whether we are talking about beef to France or about backhanders to industry, EU Member States must not be allowed to flout the law.
. (IT) Mr President, as the rapporteur, Mrs McCarthy, has already pointed out, we can certainly consider URBAN a success for the European Parliament with regard to the debate held last year on the reform of the regulations.
So, the reform will lead to the various national competition cultures being transplanted and taking root in the European competition culture - where today various small plants thrive, and they are certainly not all the same.
The code will be a document exclusively dealing with the relations of the Commission's administration with the public.
We have what we require in order to deal with end-of-life cars.
Therefore, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that we support the Theato report; I nevertheless think that this is essentially a subject that should be included on the IGC agenda.
I should like to welcome one or two initiatives that have already come from the Commission which will help us: in particular Commissioner Liikanen's commitment to having an innovative knowledge-driven economy.
On 15 March the committee published its first report concluding that: "It is becoming difficult to find anyone who has even the slightest sense of responsibility".
Mr President, my group asked that this debate be set up in order to provide Parliament with an opportunity to express its solidarity with the people directly affected by this ecological disaster, affected both in terms of their economic activities and in terms of their attachment to their natural environment.
We are badly behind now in this matter.
Ecological tax reform is what my group would like to stress the importance of, because we can only create employment and sustainable development by changing our taxation structure. But, unfortunately, as we all know, this is an area where the European Union is totally unable to act.
That is something we must guard against.
This is what is and was meant by the call for a European Constitution.
It highlights the increasing vital role of all the parties involved, chiefly those involved at a local level, who are the only ones able to define specific requirements and social problems, hence our determination to ensure that the partnerships to be established are true partnerships, which are decentralised and involve all the agents concerned.
I would quote Gaza as an example.
The tax has the support of 47% of the people in the UK, according to a recent survey by War on Want.
Are there any comments?
Most of those who have been working on the directive to date have been lawyers.
There was also an observatory under LEADER I and LEADER II.
I actually quoted the text itself, in quotation marks.
It is not true to say that, when a government forms an alliance with neo-Fascists somewhere in Europe, this is merely a question of national sovereignty.
Madam President, many of the speakers from the Socialist Group have already identified key areas where there are gaps in the Commission' s statement.
As part of its remit we also envisage the authority operating an enhanced rapid alert system for food and feed concerns.
Finally, I should like to make three additional comments, quite briefly, Mr President.
My request to the Commission is that it should make sure that the organisations and sections of the population which get involved really are accepted.
Truly European citizenship depends on our creating a real, visible area of training and culture.
In this connection, the European Parliament is also justified in insisting that it should be possible to amend the thematic priorities only after a further hearing in Parliament.
Nobody is asking for a Christmas tree.
This method of disposal of cars carries no cost and so would eliminate the whole issue of who pays because the "dead" car would actually have a small value going into the recycling and reclamation process.
It is good that, in establishing the present regulations, we can also be flexible.
I would be grateful if you could be disciplined since we are running out of time, and this delay is going to limit the time available for Questions to the Commission.
However, in order to compensate for this, all possible obstacles must be removed before the service provision card is issued, and as the Commission' s proposal would have it, more stringent conditions must be satisfied before a service provision card is issued.
That most certainly is the intention of the Commission.
The Commission is fully committed to restoring that confidence by putting in place the most up-to-date and effective food safety regime in the world.
USD 1 800 billion is the volume of money moved every day in the world' s currency markets. This represents over a quarter of the annual global volume of trade in goods and services.
When the Commission' s first draft report soon becomes the official report on 1 March, I very much hope that our input here will help ensure that we will actually witness this change.
And neither should we create structures which are reliant on subsidies and which will be dependent on them forevermore.
I am very familiar with the programmes which you refer to.
Question No 37 by (H-0791/99):
This will be taken a step further with a proposal in June for an interinstitutional agreement on a committee on standards in public life.
Madam President, the Commission communication is well written but sufficiently vague to allow any interpretation whatsoever.
I do not need to remind you that consumer confidence in Europe's food safety regime has been badly affected by the crises and alerts of recent years and months.
While there were problems - and we have to resolve them in view of enlargement, for instance - we sometimes take the negative side too far.
This debate is topical, exceptionally important and urgent.
You said earlier in your speech that a disaster such as that of the Danube is an example of the need for an emergency structure; no, Mr Prodi, we need, at long last, to start transposing legislation and ensuring that legislation is monitored.
That is a gross exaggeration of what the difficulties were.
We consider it to be of utmost importance that, in terms of financial control, personnel management and bureaucratic short-cuts, we can expect swift lines of policy and a more effective bureaucracy, for the benefit of the citizen.
I can only warn you against consenting to this.
With the Israelis we have established closer cooperation in a number of areas of particular interest to them.
INTERREG is one of the four Community initiatives scheduled for the period 2000-2006, and is the one with the largest budget for implementation, i.e. EUR 4.875 billion as opposed to EUR 3.604 billion at the present time.
Like the rapporteur, I am pleased with the Commission report, but I did deplore the fact that the report did not cover every aspect of the aid.
There are amendments which propose splitting the costs fifty-fifty between the manufacturer and the buyer of a new car.
Their real aim was to moderate and disguise the new CAP' s disastrous consequences and the disorientation of small and medium-scale farmers, and not to develop the rural areas or retain the agricultural population therein as was hypocritically declared in their objectives.
It symbolises the need for solidarity with the countries of the south, particularly those in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific which questioned us extensively on this subject in Seattle.
Equally it reflects our experiences of recent food alerts in such areas as dioxin and sludge, as well as the BSE crisis.
This attitude appears to me to be unjustified. I would also ask that a great deal more emphasis be placed on these points in the seventh periodic report.
Thus, the Erika was refused access to American waters.
A breakthrough in this regard may perhaps lead to changes in other areas, however.
I myself expressed my concern at the meeting of Ministers for regional and urban planning, a concern to which I devote myself, that in the DOCUPs and the CSFs in the planning which we are currently starting to negotiate, my concern, as I said, that, apart from the URBAN initiative, urban issues should be addressed in all the Objective 1 and Objective 2 programmes, and I believe I can express both our awareness of such issues and also our commitment to include them, beyond the scope of URBAN, in all structural fund programming.
I should also draw your attention to the significance of the Barcelona process which should have a beneficial impact on regional cooperation.
This moderation and thoughtfulness is particularly necessary in the implementation of Article 280(4).
We are obliged to participate in drafting directives and also in assessing their results.
In my judgement, this constitutes a guarantee to both sides, both from a political and a financial point of view, of the commitment they can expect from the European Union in terms of its contribution to the cost of the peace which we all long for.
In more direct terms, to the extent that this measure could be deemed an indirect restriction on capital streams, this would contravene the Treaty of Rome.
My second criticism follows on from the first.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, rural development can and must tackle the problem from three different angles: preservation of jobs, stewardship of the countryside and, not least, local culture, because that is of the utmost importance.
As far as the decision to balance the accounts is concerned, we shall abstain from voting, and where, finally, the motion for a resolution is concerned, we shall attach most importance to the many correct instructions contained in this and vote in favour of it.
I am not going to mention the length of this report.
Would sanctions not be appropriate, as the Commissioner stated, for the classification society?
I am pleased that I can address him now in Dutch, now that Mr Van den Berg has just done so. Otherwise I probably would have felt slightly guilty about this.
In addition, we must consider whether it is right and proper - and we have already had cases in which MEPs, not to mention groups, lodged a complaint against the European Parliament - for the Court of First Instance to be responsible for such cases, when in fact matters of a constitutional nature are affected and it makes more sense for such matters to be brought before the Court of Justice than before the Court of First Instance.
Oil slick off the French coast
Indeed, it is not just about modernisation of Community law, more than anything it is about transparency of decisions taken in individual cases, about the possibility of decisions actually being able to implement decisions, for the European competition policy will be dependent on the population' s acceptance, together with that of the political bodies and enterprises concerned.
As long as the economy does not weigh up the needs of all in a democratic way but is more concerned with making a profit for the benefit of a few, it is questionable as to whether democracy functions better under the rule of employers than under the rule of local councils.
Yet how can the gulf between political rhetoric and reality be filled?
Mr President, unlike some of the previous speakers, I want to go back to the words of our Portuguese ministers and Mr Vitorino.
Having said this, Madam President, I am prepared, once again, to be a voice crying in the wilderness as a result of the absence of a fishing policy.
Our motion will give you a great deal of food for thought, Commissioner, but there is one point that I would just like to go into now. Transparency and accountability belong together.
If we want there to be competition then we must establish this link between the requirements of the national economy and the pre-requisites of managerial economics.
Madam President, may I begin by extending a heartfelt thanks to all speakers and, above all of course, Mr Désir, for the fact that this debate is taking place this evening.
The economic and social cohesion which we propose is based, by means of the INTERREG initiative, on territorial cohesion and on the integration of border areas and the outermost regions of our continent.
The competition report 1998 is not a bad foundation for this but, in fact, there is nothing that could not be further improved upon.
What we need the Commission to do as a matter of urgency is to approve national aid, so as to avoid the competition issue being raised again at a later date.
The next item is the report (A5-0002/2000) by Mrs Theato, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, containing Parliament' s recommendations to the Commission on introducing protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests.
Firstly, there is no evidence that the tax on international capital movements could reduce the dangers of volatility and instability in the international markets.
Mr President, Commissioner, Europe has undergone a tough ordeal at the start of this millennium.
We must thank those who, while defenceless and lacking in resources, have battled courageously against the grave effects that this disaster has had on coastal regions, the marine ecosystem and European fishing stocks.
We are talking about us, not Austria.
Mr Schulz said earlier on that he was not certain about the definition of 'scoreboard' .
That is dealt with either under special programmes in education, for young people, for women and for exchanges or must be a matter for national policy.
The officials responsible for financial control should be deployed on a decentralised basis, that is, in the operational Directorates-General, amongst those of their colleagues that spend the money, so that they are immediately available when problems arise and so as to render the checks less ponderous and time-consuming.
This is why I give this report my full support.
This is a good approach and that is why we have also supported it.
The convention, as you will be aware, also covers the prevention of accidents which have radiological effects and the limitation of such effects when incidents of this kind occur.
Of course we also want to extend the European Parliament' s corresponding powers in this area.
I consider it to be a breakthrough that we succeeded in concluding this protocol.
I am beginning to feel a little worried because this may lead, partially at least, to exclusion.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, to my mind, it cannot be said often or loud enough that what the Council has adopted in the way of an agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference is completely unacceptable politically and I would add that I consider it to be nothing short of disgraceful.
I believe the networking system to be vital for the exchange of information and skills and for the implementation of joint projects between different areas of the Union and I repeat that in order to be fully successful it must exploit inter alia measures already in existence, such as the Carrefours.
You reject it flatly because you do not understand the first thing about it.
We also presented a proposal for a decision on combating fraud and forgery of non-cash means of payment.
In 1998, we had 55 murders.
I now turn to the controversial issue of asylum-seekers and refugees.
The Rules of Procedure do not shed any more light on the matter and that is exactly why this back burner is extremely useful.
Does the Council intend to raise the question of the definitive status of Kosovo?
I do not believe so.
There should therefore be a universal application: it is not enough that the G7 countries or the other industrialised countries are involved.
On one hand, there are the words and, on the other, their real political meaning.
You ought to also be able to draw conclusions at the IGC.
This is a Europe of regions in which the regions, which are weaker than the nation states, will easily submit to Brussels.
If I can make a literary commendation to the honourable Member, who I recognise is interested in these subjects, I recommend to him a book published just before Christmas written by Isabel Hilton, the distinguished journalist, on the problems of Tibet.
There will also be the opportunity to find new common solutions and to analyse amendments from the committee debate.
Madam President, this morning the Commission President, Mr Prodi, has set out ambitious goals for the European Union for the next five years, laudable aims indeed, to make a strong and effective European presence felt in the world: succeeding with enlargement, meeting the challenge of selling e-Europe, introducing better principles of governance.
And because of the programme' s success and its basic approach they will of course at some point then be dropped from LEADER.
An important part of the communication between the two institutions will obviously be to ensure that those of us who are involved in the drafting of legislation understand clearly and perfectly what it is the scientists mean, what problems they have identified, what legislation is necessary to deal with the issues they raise.
Mr President, early last year, the 1997 discharge was postponed because this Parliament could not possibly grant discharge to a resigning Commission which could not enter into any commitments for the future.
In my opinion, the European Union can only accept Malta if it is guaranteed that the Maltese flag will sail without an accident in future.
Under no circumstances will we concede ground which we have won over the past few months, which we believe to be in the interests of openness and transparency.
This is the way forward if we are to ensure uniform conditions of competition.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, I should like to applaud your proposal for a radical decentralisation of the Union' s activities and ask why, then, you are proposing a legislative programme which would lead to centralisation.
Question No 5 by (H-0785/99):
I would like to think that, given his previous experience as a regional President, he will agree to propose indicators, and a strategy, which will favour economic and social cohesion and not just productivity.
By this I mean that there are aspects of the form and procedure of the Community institutions' workings which are not accessible to the other institutions, and not only as regards the Commission' s relationship with Parliament, but also as regards the Commission' s relationship with the Council.
For all these reasons, the French delegation of the UEN Group could not approve the McCarthy report.
First of all: who should pay?
This does not mean that we sympathise with Haider.
We must do this for the sake of the environment.
The Tampere Council, the motor and architect of this objective, has proposed certain goals, but five years, the time scale laid down for the implementation of Chapter IV of the Treaty, is too long to wait for the urgent solution which some problems require.
In my opinion, the directive solidly regulates the matter of accountability for how a car is disposed of in Europe.
It is also important to underline the connection between competition policy and consumer protection.
This is not an attempt to either censor or go against the very real and justifiable principle that we should have a statute for assistants.
We considered that increasing public confidence by combating everyday urban crime was one of the central tasks of urban regeneration.
Behind these principles, Mr President, lies the justice system.
As this is the first Valentine' s Day of the new millennium I hope that you will agree with me that it would be fitting for this House to mark this day by making a firm commitment to tackling heart disease, the biggest killer in the European Union.
After all, examining the issue of transparency in the ways the institutions operate should never be hidden away under any old heading or confined to some lobby or other - though I know full well the importance of these lobbies.
Scotland, with a population of 5 million, has eight seats in this House at the moment; Denmark and Finland, with the same population, have sixteen.
Does the Commission consider that what has happened is compatible with the five-point programme agreed between Parliament and the Commission in September, and is it prepared to submit a detailed proposal for legislation on proper administration in a form which allows Parliament to express an opinion on it?
INTERREG could well allow enhancement of such cooperation.
The disagreement and the correspondence to which you refer, Commissioner, concern, first and foremost, another directive, namely the working time directive, but now we can foresee another letter of formal notice and further Treaty infringement proceedings looming because the Danish Government does not intend, or has expressly stated that it does not wish, to implement legislation and establish universally applicable agreements.
But for the internal market to work effectively and for the single European currency to be a success it is important that all regions within Europe, of which there are over 100, can economically compete within this very challenging environment.
I would merely ask when this is likely to take effect.
My Group has made extensive amendments to both reports up for debate today.
.
Our concern and our ambition, therefore, on a large number of subjects, is to be on the same wavelength and to carry these negotiations forward successfully.
Only one manager has participated in gender training, and for half a day.
There is too little action and too much unnecessary bureaucracy.
As a member of the convention that has now taken up its work on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, I wish to make the following point clear: neither my group nor I are content with making a solemn announcement about the Charter.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
I would like to state that this transfer will not increase the pressure of fishing on anchovy stocks overall, over the whole Community fishing area.
1997 was a matter for the old Commission and, therefore, the new Commission does not think that it can accept liability.
However, in order for such an effort to succeed it is necessary to secure the commitment and participation of the public as a whole and to enlist the support of the less active social groups and the groups particularly affected by the economic and social crisis.
I applaud your view that we need more synergy between our institutions, not just between Commission and Parliament, but also between these and the Council to underscore the extent of the political challenge.
Instead, it should leave Member States to develop their own systems, and avoid the tendency to interfere where it is not wanted and can do no good.
But I will do what I can to see that Mrs Theato' s report receives more support.
There is therefore an urgent need to grant Parliament codecision rights in this respect and, as we have already said, to strengthen the principle of democratic control.
Mr President, I voted for the Procacci report on rural development, not only because I endorse the major policy lines of the LEADER programme, but also because it complements the URBAN programme, which I spoke about earlier.
However, I would highlight not only paragraph 9 of the motion, but also paragraph 10.
I applaud the innovative approach of the EQUAL programme and the aim of integrating discriminated groups into the labour market.
Over time, as I said a moment ago, not only will the profile of the authority be raised but its expertise, its moral authority will be increased and enhanced over a period of time so that its views are accepted and not challenged.
This is very sensible because key economic and social difficulties in our country cannot be overcome unless there is key integration between national, European and local funding.
In taking over the mandate, the new Commission has to assume responsibility not just for the achievements of the past but also for the mistakes made.
Free trade and the constant worship of globalisation are now the dominant ideology or, rather, the big mistake of our fin de siècle. This ideology is as dangerous as the former ideology of the dictatorship of the proletariat in the corridors of the Kremlin or, before that, the certainty, elevated to the status of a dogma, that the earth was flat.
Some areas within the European Union are economically very strong and heavily exceed the average income per capita.
The first concerns the manufacturer' s unrestricted liability to take back end-of-life vehicles.
The real culprits are Austria' s Christian Democrat acting as Judas goats to resurrect a threat to Europe that we thought had died Berlin in 1945.
Let us not forget either that greater consideration should be given to the islands and remote regions of the European Union because their geographical location is a hindrance to their economic and social development, unless of course the Commission is intending to build bridges or underwater tunnels linking them to the European mainland.
In short, Commissioner, I would therefore like to know whether in this case, the precautionary principle as you understand it, would in any case, require the product to be taken off the market, until such time as another laboratory provides evidence to the contrary.
I would like to make three brief points.
We know from media reports that bombs and weapons were dumped just off the coast.
Only then does it stop being a question of economic usability and start being about people having equal rights to shape their own lives.
The latter would be well advised, however, to follow the good example of the Commission, for once, and make the same efforts in their own research programmes.
The Commission has therefore adopted the strategic programme for 2000-2005, a programme that was immediately sent to the European Parliament and with which you are already familiar, so I will not go into detail about it now.
We know that most Austrians respect these values.
Crucially, reforms must not be limited to the Commission.
In relation to this, I must inform the European Parliament of my intention to organise halfway through the year 2000 a seminar with national and regional authorities on this question of the evaluation of procedures for the exchange of good practice in the management of Structural Funds.
It would also be the first time that the European Parliament would be weakening a Council position, whereas usually we are complaining that their position is not strong enough.
Member States are urged to attach greater importance to integrated strategies for revitalising relations between towns and rural areas.
It is up to the Members States and the Community to take the necessary initiatives to achieve this.
This is unfortunate and it is wrong, and we believe that it is important to identify it and to establish legislation to close that gap and that will be done.
Mr President, I am grateful for the Council' s oral, and also written, reply.
A legislative act, a directive, in which there is a standardised definition for the different types of fraud such as money-laundering or corruptibility, and in which the obligation to launch criminal proceedings is enshrined as a binding objective, may enable us to take a major step forwards, and I will therefore advise the Commission to examine this step with all due haste.
I therefore believe that it is very important for everyone to back this European Union plan and for it to be further developed.
I welcome the fact that grant aid of 40% and a top-up of 15% for SMEs for fixed investment will be permitted for companies setting up in Objective 1 regions in Europe post-2000.
Safeguarding the social function of the market is what makes the difference between free trade, pure and simple, and a system for improving people' s quality of life.
The main changes are as follows: all rural areas will be eligible to benefit from LEADER+; the selection criteria for local measures will be more rigorous; integrated local development plans will be introduced as priority themes, such as the use of information technology, improving the quality of life, and adding value to local products.
The unfettered rise in prices of financial assets and property means that the risks are on the increase.
I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to start a debate at this point. This was just a procedural motion.
Mr President, I hold Mr Florenz in high esteem.
I believe that this is particularly important as EU Structural Funds are always spent in a manner which maximises the economic development of different regions when local and regional authorities are involved in the decision-making process for the spending of such funds.
Report (A5-0007/2000) by Mr Berger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the posting of workers who are third-country nationals for the provision of cross-border services (COM(1999)0003 - C5-0095/1999 - 1999/0012(COD))
They must therefore realise that such issues cannot be decided on the rationale of bargaining alone.
They want to see results.
This is all in accordance with the principles that we have always upheld.
The production line was invented about a hundred years ago, I believe, by Henry Ford and what we are proposing to do here is to create a sort of nineteenth century production line in reverse - to dismantle vehicles, to take the pieces apart and seek to recycle them.
Secondly, I agree with what has already been said on the issue of the islands and I would also like to bring the outermost regions to your attention.
It therefore seemed essential to make good this omission in order to achieve the standardised, high-level training of safety advisers, but also in order to avoid any disparities between the costs of training, with a concomitant effect on competition between the firms of different Member Sates.
Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the GUE/NGL Group resolution because it denounces Total-Fina' s responsibility in this ecological disaster and I endorse the proposal that flags of convenience and the use of superannuated vessels should be prohibited, or that double hulls should be mandatory for oil tankers.
Providing support for culture meets with wide-spread acceptance, and this certainly cannot be said of all policy decisions.
President Arafat will be meeting the Council of Ministers next week.
Mr President, may I commence by complimenting Mr Langen on his work.
Throughout the negotiations, they were of great help and it must be said that the difficult and occasionally tiresome negotiations were nonetheless completed in record time.
Thank you, Commissioner.
It also, of course, finds indirect expression in the question.
The President of Parliament has made us aware of the very limited time at our disposal, and my colleague, the Minister for Justice, and I therefore propose to reply objectively to all the questions put here at the parliamentary committee meeting which we shall be attending next week.
We can only hope that it will, after all, be possible to persuade the Council to have a change of heart one day.
We - the Commission - are the first to know that we must have a total rethink, and we shall therefore do two things: we are, and will continue to be, fully committed to internal reform, and we shall rethink our policies in detail.
However, there is a current trend - the "fauna, flora, habitat" directive was quoted as an example - which, in my country at least, creates the impression that associations are bypassing national and regional institutions and submitting programmes to Brussels and that Brussels is then making decisions affecting the property of countless agricultural holdings in the countries of the European Union.
The report itself is well-intentioned but, as so often when we deal with these issues, lacks clarity of purpose and a sound basis for operability.
All of this must be done - I repeat - with the participation of private business, which, by uniting its efforts with those of public administrations, but complementing them, never obstructing or excluding them, will lead to the creation of wealth in society and of jobs.
Nevertheless, I would point out to the Commission that, as far as the Socialist Group is concerned, there has been a change of priorities.
You have mentioned Ethiopia, which falls within the scope of national indicative programmes, but there are, as you know, several Community actions to combat AIDS, and in this respect, you are right, and the United States will probably not do any better.
Districts and regional authorities consider this as their own money but they can only get their hands on this by investing vast amounts of money and manpower in lobbying and negotiating.
After all, what will the citizens say if we make a solemn announcement about rights to them but they are unable to take legal action in respect of these rights as individuals?
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 21 January 2000.
There has been no appropriate assessment of the importance of the global grant instrument, which could prove to be extremely useful in redressing the balance between urban and rural zones and, moreover, would accord proper status to local bodies which, being independent, could bring about the conditions for territorial development more quickly, and make a practical contribution to the efforts to reform the Structural Funds and to achieve the objectives of efficiency, concentration and administrative reform.
Mrs Theato probably forgot to include a European prison now that we have the FBI, the European police, in the form of OLAF.
Very rapid growth is continuing in Central Europe.
An essential component of this joint effort should, in any case, be this Parliament' s right of assent to the forthcoming changes to the Treaty.
Democracy, transparency and clarity always lead to results, citizens value results and this is what the Commission is judged on.
Those who are currently coming to the fore in Europe based on fear will win the day.
Well in simple economic terms, Europe' s culture adds to genuine prosperity.
However, contrary to their claim to provide guidance, the Commission' s proposals in this respect are reminiscent to a far greater extent of a catalogue of possible measures within the scope of the various policy areas.
I hope that the Commission and the Council can reach agreement on their respective roles in exercising their right to initiatives and in carrying forward the legislative process itself. As I have told Parliament, the task before us is immense and ambitious, and the Commission needs to have the necessary human resources to respond to this challenge.
The Commission proposed removing it and other initiatives, but Parliament' s proposal and the sensitivity of the Commission itself at the time led to the URBAN initiative being retained.
However, the Liberal Group has not wanted to close the door to a new analysis of this issue and, therefore, we have accepted a joint motion for a resolution proposing that a study be carried out on the possibility and suitability of imposing this tax on certain areas of international capital movements.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine my observations to Mr Decourrière' s report.
We German Christian Democrats used another strategy in the battle against extremists and clearly disassociated ourselves from them.
Have the lessons not been learnt?
This does not conflict with a financing model involving the building up of funds.
Hence, what we must focus on today is the question as to how state aid is to be managed in future.
The Commission, in its proposals to the forthcoming intergovernmental conference, has indicated that its preference lies in seeing smaller Member States lose their automatic right to nominate a member of the European Commission.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
This obligation is not respected either in France or in many other European countries.
We do not yet have the final results of these programmes and cannot yet tell if the quantitative objectives were achieved.
The Council has decided that justice and home affairs policy must form part of the structure of the Union.
In that case, the tax could lead to a net loss of total economic prosperity.
Surely we have learnt this much from the events surrounding the Leonardo affair, when the internal examiners in the relevant Directorate-General issued warnings, but these were neither heeded nor passed on.
But I know too that we will have many further opportunities in the coming months to consider the White Paper's proposals on the authority.
However, the appointment was cancelled at the last minute.
Fourthly, technically speaking, this measure is highly impracticable and will result in a great deal of bureaucracy and administration and be impossible to control.
Though we have a high respect for the work of national competition authorities and so on, it is evident that we will watch very carefully how EC law is applied by national authorities and courts.
Organisations of disabled people and disabled people' s non-disabled representatives must have a proper interest at every stage of decision-making.
We are debating a highly controversial modernisation proposal for European monopolies law, that is Mr von Wogau' s report, and it is far more controversial than the vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs may have given us reason to believe.
Owing to the imminent increase in membership, the bodies of the future European Union must become more effective.
How many people found work?
This instrument will fall by the wayside in future.
That is what I should like to say by way of introduction.
Inspections by the maritime authorities and supervision within European ports must also be tightened up.
The sectors which have been liberalised are experiencing an avalanche of mergers and acquisitions, leading inevitably to monopoly situations.
I have taken note of your comment, Mr Speroni.
It is as if the Council had more than one face and two hands and what one signs up to, the other begrudges.
These are just two examples of real life problems behind delays in Europe' s system of justice. Delays in justice can mean personal difficulties and even tragedy.
It is shameful!
Mrs Lucas should do the same.
They want answers.
Personally, I am rather in favour of the term "EU service provision card" which is proposed in Amendment No 1, but the Treaty of Amsterdam does not allow this.
The next item is the report (A5-0105/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the harmonisation of examination requirements for safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterways (C5-0208/1999 - 1998/0106(COD)).
Thirdly, if we do not stand up to this unnatural alliance, I can assure you that we can forget the European Union' s main objective - enlargement - because, if we were Czechs, Slovenes or Hungarians, what would we say, faced with a neighbour who judges us on racial grounds and does not want us to enter?
The knowledge that the framework relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission still remain to be negotiated led to our disagreement with the rapporteur when we debated his report in committee.
However, when it comes to safety, I am rather sceptical because safety in Sweden, for example, is in principle no different from safety in Germany, Italy or Austria.
However, in my view, he will be no more able or willing to be integrated into this, into our political system, and into the Europe of today, than any other extreme right-wing movement.
This cannot be ignored or evaded, certainly not on account of soft law, as was once suggested at a meeting of our Committee.
Once again, the Tobin tax is, in my view, at odds with the Treaty of Rome, and this is an important, theoretical objection which has not been considered by any of the speakers this evening.
The first report was widely publicised, formally debated and used - just like the controversy and news leaks which preceded it - to make mincemeat, first of the President of the Commission, and then of the majority of the European Commissioners, even though they had no connection with fraud, mismanagement or nepotism.
Mr President, today the European Parliament must face up to real responsibilities.
Numerous questions are still outstanding.
I have long believed that we should all recognise that countries where it is best to do business are countries that treat their own citizens most decently - everywhere in the world.
For example, state guarantees, on which the Commission has just publicised its position, must naturally be considered state aid, but they are, in my opinion, a better option than granting aid directly to companies.
Firstly, we need a successful European economy.
Mr President, Commissioner, this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union constitutes a milestone in the analysis of regional data and highlights the progress made in this area since the issue of the fifth periodic report.
Mr President, the Intergovernmental Conference mandate needs to be widened.
We await the White Paper on the governance of the European Union dealing with the issue of balance between Member States' governments and the European Union institutions which is to be published this summer.
This is not the first time that this issue has not been given the consideration it deserves. This has been an ongoing concern for the five years that I have been a Member of this Parliament, and I have raised the issue time and time again.
In the course of the discharge procedure for the coming years - that for 1998 is already under way - Parliament will have to examine, as a matter of urgency, whether or not it was too quick to bestow premature praise on the Commission for 1997.
I refer to the current debate on the present conflicts in the European Union.
We need to move that agenda forward with great urgency now.
I only need to mention the case of Directives 79/409 and 92/43.
Finally, in my view, this sixth periodic report presents interesting arguments from the viewpoint of a real project for the balanced sustainable development of Europe, particularly when it outlines the importance of relations between the central areas of Europe and its more remote regions.
Incidentally, this last point would be unfair to fourteen Members of the Council, since it was just one, the Netherlands, which was responsible for that intransigence.
The fundamental element for the development of each person - his freedom, which comes before economic gain - is thus enhanced.
I do not believe that there is broad support in Europe for the introduction of qualified majority voting on taxation, justice and home affairs, and foreign affairs at European Union level.
This is why we are voting in favour of this resolution in spite of its hypocritical references to a 'European democratic model' which bears more resemblance to a fortress which tracks downs, expels and imprisons immigrants without the proper papers, when it is not opening files on teenagers.
But I really feel that, in the circumstances, we want to know what the implications would be for business.
The report on so-called discharge contains a comprehensive and extremely critical survey of the accounts.
We support the Council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the Austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option.
I should like to express especial thanks to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, particularly to its rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, its chairman, Mr Gargani, the European Parliament delegation and the leaders of the political groups, the Conciliation Committee and its chairman, Mr Imbeni.
They call for the areas eligible for cross-border cooperation to be extended to all regions of the Adriatic, as well as to the Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta - an applicant country - which, inexplicably, are not currently included in strand A, Annex 1.
I propose that we vote on the request of the Group of the Party of European Socialists that the Commission statement on its strategic objectives should be reinstated.
Madam President, I am delighted and proud that this Parliament has, by an enormous majority, condemned the formation of the coalition in Austria incorporating Mr Haider' s Freedom Party.
Thirdly, one of the best approaches to this issue is to integrate gender as an important and cross-cutting issue into the most popular courses for development officials and above all perhaps for the project cycle management course which is key to good management of projects on the ground.
Amendments Nos 6 and 21 are new; the Commission can approve these.
Let us make this clear, however much some people may not wish to believe it.
Finally, a word on INTERREG.
We have seen the gap between rich and poor widen.
We are now endeavouring, at huge cost, to get the country back on its feet again and help its people, and rightly so.
It has already been mentioned that the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force in May and this Parliament stated that the most far-reaching innovation in this Treaty was its recognition of the need to establish an area of freedom, security and justice.
This is where Mr Solana, the High Representative to the Council, could come into his own.
Regarding the fight against organised crime, 1999 marked the implementation of several important actions stemming from the Vienna action plan, which resulted in the signing of the Charter of European Professional Associations, in developments in cooperation and in establishing points of contact between the Member States for receiving information relevant to the fight against money laundering. And I must not forget the Finnish Presidency' s proposal for a Council decision which is being considered in the Multi-disciplinary Group.
Mr President, Commissioner, the guidelines are intended to help steer the Member States towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes.
Thank you, Commissioner.
This requires a clear example to be set by Commissioners and senior staff as well as adequate training and secondly, by reinforcing the existing mechanisms for dealing with fraud.
This system appears to us to be unsuitable in practical terms.
That is precisely the time when you may, if you wish, raise this question, i.e. on Thursday prior to the start of the presentation of the report.
I have not attended a single forum of specialists in competition law which has not requested a change to the system.
All the same, we must not content ourselves with enacting European law to ensure greater safety.
There are therefore two possible solutions: either the Directive is inapplicable in Denmark, or Denmark is required by the Directive to introduce universally applicable agreements.
The only arguments against it are: firstly, it would impair the efficiency of the foreign exchange market - a little fanciful in light of the financial feeding frenzies we have seen that have destroyed jobs throughout the world, in East Asia, Europe and Latin America.
The huge variety of situations and the varying development seen from region to region within the same State mean that there is a need for an in-depth assessment of this issue. This kind of assessment would enable us to allow and guarantee corrections to regional (and other) policies with a view also to guaranteeing internal cohesion within each Member State.
Subject: Measures to advance gender equality One of the working groups of Commissioners announced by President Prodi has as its objective the promotion of measures to advance gender equality (gender mainstreaming).
I should like to mention a few specific points.
The Commission is not in fact today a European government.
It would be more appropriate for the EU to concentrate its financial efforts on pre-existing European policies.
Let us hope that we can avoid institutional upheavals by having an ongoing dialogue which assumes from the outset that Parliament will be an equal partner in deciding the outcome of Commission reform.
I know that you, as Members of Parliament, in your own regions and countries, are all going to work together with the programme participants so that all these small flowers, as one Member of Parliament said, go to make a vast multicoloured carpet.
The Commissioner, Mrs Schreyer, is not here yet, but I hope, and expect, that she will arrive in the next few minutes.
Let me make clear to the honourable Member what the position is.
Madam President, I actually feel that we ought not to have continued discussing this because we said everything there was to say in the last debate.
It is, after all, only the most serious crimes which would have consequences under criminal law. Ninety per cent of cases would be disciplinary matters concerning negligence or incompetence.
The first question, then, is about who should pay.
- The European Parliamentary Labour Party has abstained on the final vote on the Leinen Dimitrakopoulos Report.
With the introduction of a series of codes of conduct the current Commission has begun to develop an explicit ethical framework.
I hope that the Commission will make its own proposal concerning how the expanding Union might implement its institutional and other differentiation.
Finally, I should like to emphasise that in order to address the problems facing the post-industrial city we require local participation.
I can show you a copy if you wish.
We must, however, admit that in financial terms we cannot proclaim a victory!
The current globalisation process is - and I quote - 'exclusive rather than inclusive and has widened the inequalities' . The European Union' s objective must therefore be to help define new ground rules within the Union and in international relations.
Since 1991, the Community has provided significant financial support to the New Independent States including the countries of central Asia.
We could then, theoretically, also support the Commission' s call for a management unit for structural assistance in the Member States, with the task of coordinating the implementation and administration of structural assistance there,provided that this unit does not become a centralising instrument at supranational level, but guarantees real help for those zones - and I stress this once again - which, owing to a whole string of converging negative factors, have not yet harnessed Structural Funds to sufficient levels, with the result that replacing the geographical objective with policy areas could, in fact, amount to a negative intervention.
The Union is currently restricted to a policy of stability which is certainly necessary but insufficient.
I want to thank you, Commissioner Monti, for your outstanding cooperation and I want to tell you that, as we enter the new millennium, you have an especially important role.
We are charged with particular responsibility for the promotion of regional economic development.
I understand this anxiety, this fear that the agenda may be too limited, and yet I feel, as I said to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on returning from Helsinki, that we can work on the basis of this Helsinki mandate.
I have to inform you, Commissioner, that both the report of the Wise Men and that of Mr van Hulten will become gauges for our group, gauges which should make it clear to us whether we can have confidence in the Prodi Commission or not.
According to the Commission' s proposal -20ºC would have been sufficient. On the shores of the Mediterranean, it is hard to imagine that in Lapland temperatures can fall considerably lower than that.
The Commission will keep a close watch on the Greek Government in order to ensure that it honours the commitments which it has made.
Welcome
In any case, the Commission' s proposal refers back to old proposals that were put forward as long ago as the fifties and sixties.
Hence our amendment in order to prevent contradictions between general policy and actual projects.
Bilateral relations involve the States, so the 14 do not come into this.
I would like to say that, as we know, the Commission report on State aid to the steel industry does not include individual decisions made under the exception procedure, pursuant to Article 95 of the ECSC Treaty, but addresses decisions which are not covered by the code on aid for the steel sector.
These are the three most important aims of the directive.
But I warn against using these programmes to take urban culture to the countryside.
The "Erika" incident was serious especially for the people of Brittany most closely affected, but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of Europe.
The fisheries policy is due for review in a few months' time, i.e. at the beginning of the year 2000.
EQUAL remains crucial also to regions like my own, in the east of England, outside the principal funds of Objective I. We have had an extra incentive to take up Community initiative funding and an excellent record in response.
We welcome that, and because we think it makes a sensible and proper provision, we will support the most liberal version which we understand to be consistent with the law.
I merely mention it as an example of where we must take care and where I would recommend that we try to achieve more legal security in the future.
The next item is the report (A5-0104/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 94/55/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road [COM(1999) 158 - C5-0004/1999 - 1999/0083(COD)].
I am also pleased that Parliament essentially supports the Commission' s view that LEADER+ should be applied in all rural areas, that overriding priorities should be introduced and that, above all, active cooperation and networking between rural areas should be encouraged.
We therefore consider that the General Secretariat of the Council is at present making available to the public all essential information regarding the Council' s functions as a legislative body.
The EU Commission cannot pay for everything.
The high level of protection aimed at by the common position would be very much undermined if the recycling objective for the year 2006 were removed.
The share that renewable energy sources have in total energy production must be increased, but it has to be done in a rational manner.
Mrs Avilés-Perea, that was an exhortation rather than a question.
It is therefore quite legitimate and even imperative that we ask ourselves, what purpose do the current common standards and rules serve?
In addition, this sort of measure would also seriously hamper the development of the financial markets and would stand in the way of the principle of the free movement of capital, which is one of the central tenets of the internal market.
The Commission proposals refer to the four pillars of employment strategy and the five fields of action of the European Social Fund.
Yesterday it was impossible for myself and many MEPs to be here, because the 2.15 p.m. Air France flight, which normally brings us here, was cancelled, with no explanation from the airline, and we therefore arrived very late.
As manufacturers are responsible for the design, they can give a great deal of consideration to the environment at the conception phase.
I thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate.
The Council is consulting us and Parliament is giving its opinion.
I enthusiastically support the report's proposal to publish a "scoreboard" showing the amount of state aid per Member State.
This revised Community framework would have three core elements: operational criteria set up at Community level, Community control guidelines, and enhanced administrative cooperation in the development and operation of control.
Therefore, my question is whether you could examine the possibility that some of the policies on microcredits, which have brought results in cooperation, could be applied to those women in severely less-favoured regions, who have the odds stacked against them.
However, we obtained a well-balanced common position in July during the Finnish Presidency.
The debate is closed.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Another area is EU involvement in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime and its various protocols, and in the conventions being prepared in the framework of the Council of Europe, in particular on cyber crime.
Commissioner, I would also like to thank you for the speedy response of your department to this event and the measures which are being adopted and implemented.
I should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made, ladies and gentlemen, and firstly on procedure.
In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament do not permit us to table our own resolution condemning Haider' s party, as well as all the parties throughout Europe which disseminate racist slander and which are xenophobic and hostile to immigrant workers, we voted in favour of the compromise resolution. We did so even though we did not agree with some of its recitals or terms, in order to show our solidarity with all those in Austria itself who are opposing the Austrian extreme right and its demagoguery.
(The President declared the common position approved (as amended))
I must stress that this exemption is not a refusal of work for any reason, be it the reason which you mentioned, sexual orientation, ethnic discrimination or any other reason.
Mr President, I am very pleased to see URBAN orientated towards a more integrated approach which attempts to solve interrelated problems.
This latter point is of particular importance.
These are the terms of the written answer you gave Mr Martinez on 11 January 2000.
One is nuclear safety in Eastern Europe.
At the same time, the social and economic problems facing European society are more pronounced in urban areas.
However, Madam President, these considerations must not hide the fact that the joint text which we will vote on tomorrow, and which the Socialists will vote in favour of, will put in place one of the European Union' s most important programmes.
Calls for design improvements in hull construction, especially double-hulled vessels, are sensible but take time to be implemented throughout the fleet.
Madam President, I am totally appalled by the Commission' s, i.e. Mr Bolkestein' s, political ignorance!
We can never talk enough about the difficulties experienced in the past by maritime and landlocked border regions which have been cut off economically, socially and culturally.
The Commission document sets out to focus on the initiatives to be taken at Community level, especially through the fifth framework programme for research and technical development, which is quite obviously something I approve of.
You must embark on a dialogue with the international community.
Brittany and Galicia, two European 'Lands Ends' , fall constant prey to the irresponsibility of those who prefer not to comply with safety regulations and transport crude oil in vessels which in themselves constitute potential oil slicks.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, 'Shaping the new Europe' is an ambitious objective both for the Commission and for us all.
The new Europe should not only expand horizontally, but also vertically, by living by our values in practice and by developing a democratic structure of a real community.
Mr President, the monopolies' ban is the key element of functioning competition order in Europe.
In order to function, the market needs rules.
Your Commissioners are clearly not solely responsible for this.
This issue is extremely topical.
The functionalist approach is over, for better or for worse.
Doubtless there are also a lot of protest voters on the scene that have wanted a change in Austrian policy for a long time.
We can deal with it.
Which Community body will control the funding of the steering group and the monitoring committee and verify that the programme is carried out exactly and correctly?
The many ideas which have been expressed here could be put into three broad categories.
The Member States, i.e. the national governments, have primary responsibility for setting up the joint agencies, submitting proposals, selecting the proposals which the programmes will implement and carrying out primary control.
I do not know, but one benchmark we could certainly use is the challenge we must take up together.
That also includes bullets and weapons and so on and it is an early warning system.
During the budgetary procedure we were told that the funds for Kosovo must be voted on as a matter of urgency yet, according to our information, no invitation to tender has been published or initiated to date.
Each of them will be available for reflection and response by this House.
The success of URBAN during the 1994-1999 programming period is indisputable.
Then it is possible to understand that, for example, lower electricity and telecommunications prices are due to European competition policy, and Brussels should not be pilloried when aid decisions are taken which are, of course, bound to cause problems at a particular moment in time or in a local context.
Just like the previous report, this extremely competent and precise analysis, the recommendations it supports and your own comments, ladies and gentlemen, shall prove useful to the Commission in general and to the Commissioner responsible for regional policy in particular at this time when we are involved with the programming of appropriations for 2000-2006.
Looking at some of the press reports of last Friday, I believe that the Commission and its President exercised commendable self-restraint in the way they commented publicly.
I remind Mr Jonckheer that Irish companies or foreign companies in Ireland still have to cross two sea masses to reach the mainland European marketplace.
This historic weight of guilt falls on the shoulders of the Conservatives for having consorted with the wolf of their own free will and waiting to be devoured.
Despite everything, we are being forced to recognise that the resumption of the peace process is largely due to the work of Washington.
The European Union has played a key role in developing the border county region in Ireland over the years.
As the smallest Community initiative in existence, we therefore proposed an increase in its funding through an amendment which was rejected.
As I informed Mr Davies, I promise to look into this matter this very evening with the quaestors.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Some of these parties, despite declaring themselves to be republican and democratic, adopt the demagoguery of the extreme right, either out of connivance or as a vote-winning ploy, if only in openly and hypocritically blaming the immigrant workers in our countries for unemployment, and generally making their lives more difficult.
In essence this means applying the principle of subsidiarity.
We have a long way to go before we are perfect ourselves.
We want a Europe for the people and not a Europe of paper-pushers!
First let me say that it would be a great help to us, now that we have reached the stage where this is being processed by Parliament, if you could make specific proposals which we could take into account.
A lot of them have not signed up to or not ratified the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests, and therefore it was clear that something more radical needed to be done.
It contained details and issues that had already been raised in previous reports.
Mr President, I am happy to take the floor in the debate on this report and I congratulate Mrs Theato.
In expecting consumers to bear half the cost of the recovery of end-of-life vehicles, as Amendment No 38 stipulates, even though the common position states that all recovery costs should be borne by the manufacturer, Parliament would, for the first time, not be acting as the defender of the rights of the consumers and citizens of Europe, it would be turning into mere sounding box for different lobbies.
Madam President, we have just passed a resolution which condemns the racist and xenophobic record of Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party in Austria, which has welcomed action by our governments to cut off political relations with any government of which he is part, and which sends our support to anti-racist groups within the democratic majority of the Austrian people.
Quite clearly it is undesirable to have situations develop whereby scientists working for, or advising, the food safety authority at Community level may be in disagreement with some scientific opinion at Member State level.
That is reasonable because it comes from the Budgetary Control Committee.
They must be non-discriminatory in their application, that is measures should not differentiate on the basis of geographical origin.
This is, and will continue to be, connected with developments within the World Trade Organisation.
The financial controller should still be able to make checks before funding commitments or payments are made, not in every case, but wherever uncertainties or risks arise.
Where would Europe' s tourism industry be without the richness of our culture?
Most of them are an expression of the political differences among ourselves regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of state aid, in view of the inadequacies, acknowledged or not, of private investment alone, the market failures or inadequacies of the market.
However, I should also like to extend thanks to the various committees involved and Parliament as a whole for the broad support which they have given the LEADER+ initiative.
This, however, does not seem feasible.
It is also distressing to think that the initiative taken against Austria is actually the result of an agreement between governments and that, in any case, the European Union and its institutions would not have had the means or the consensus to allow them to act, and to prevent and rectify the course of events.
This is why it is useful for the European Union to continue to support the Member States and, if necessary, give additional support under URBAN.
I would therefore like to ask the Commissioner, who was kind enough to make some comments about my remarks in the previous debate, to look into this and to report back to Parliament and to me their findings.
We agree with what you said about the Barcelona process.
It is equally important to note that "prevention is better than cure" .
Unfortunately, no initiatives have yet materialised regarding other matters and we still await them.
Declarations of principle are not enough.
I would like to ask, what is, then, the definition of a recognised minority?
Thus, for the consumer, for the environment and for the new jobs to be created in recycling, the Council' s common position definitely must not be amended. It is, as it stands, perfectly acceptable.
This is not the way to fight extremism.
From that point of view, the proposed facility is a two-phase aid facility and the second tranche must be released as soon as the donors have made clear their interest.
Literature likewise plays an important part in the way it transmits our cultural heritage, increases mutual familiarity and preserves linguistic wealth and the diversity of tongues.
I would like to start by thanking my colleagues for their cooperation on this report, it would not be what it is today without that spirit of cooperation.
I thought that it was quite superb.
This communication must contain a clear timetable.
The implementation of Agenda 2000 in the agricultural sector does not ultimately require more money.
It is one of the most powerful weapons Parliament has and must therefore be deployed with care.
This fact means that the European Parliament, the Commissioner and the Commission must act decisively and strategically.
Yesterday we honoured our institution with a political debate.
I hope that the Chamber will be just as committed this time.
I would also like to point out, Madam President, that this Parliament voted to express its confidence in President Prodi during the previous legislature. It did so again during this legislature, in July, and then, in September, it voted once more to approve the whole Commission.
Can the Commission confirm that the Directive concerning the posting of workers is inapplicable in Denmark as far as 'collective agreements ... declared universally applicable' (cf. Article 3(1)) are concerned, given that such universally applicable agreements do not exist under Danish law?
Does the document you have presented here today also accord with the opinion of your colleagues the Commissioners for Industry, Foreign Trade, Competition and the Internal Market?
In November 1999 the Commission approved at first reading a code of good administrative behaviour to be incorporated into its Rules of Procedure.
Two of the amendments tabled and adopted unanimously by the committee relate precisely to this amended comitology procedure.
Another essential point that must be included in this text is the express exclusion of vintage vehicles from its scope.
I was asked to highlight the result of the storms in Ireland.
Peat is not mentioned in the list of renewable energy sources.
The LEADER Community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom-up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs.
We Radicals have tabled amendments which we are submitting to the House in order to consolidate this text, and for example, to request - just for the sake of mentioning Articles 6 and 7 - that the very minimum be done, i.e., that the European Parliament should also be involved in drawing up the European Constitution and that a proposal be made for the European Parliament to adopt the amendments to the Treaty.
If Air France insists on boycotting the European Parliament, we should take measures to prevent this occurring again.
But the FVO is in quite a different situation from the Food Safety Authority.
However, democratic elections do not make democrats of those who have threatened democracy.
If that is the case, we have not progressed one little bit since pagan times.
As you know, both we and the Council have addressed this issue appropriately.
The idea of a European Public Prosecutor on the continental inquisitorial model with overriding jurisdiction throughout EU territories would have a major impact on the traditional systems both in Ireland and the UK.
In my Member State, for example, we are developing a strategic approach in a White Paper and an urban government taskforce is looking at the problems of urban communities.
The aid which Union Member States allocate each year to the sectors under consideration reached a total of EUR 95 billion in the period 1995-1997, including 40% allocated to the manufacturing sector.
This report is about the Commission.
I am opposed to this, unlike the majority of this House and indeed the majority of my own group, because I believe that, in competition policy terms, the directly applicable exception system is in every sense inferior to a system of prohibition unless certain conditions are met, and I believe there is a threat of renationalisation.
Care must be taken to ensure that the Council complies with Parliament' s modus operandi.
The directive concerning end-of-life vehicles will stand as an example for future legislation.
Mr President, my reason for wanting to contribute to this debate is because the URBAN initiative, in Ireland in particular, has been quite successful and I am keen that the European Union make a further contribution in that area.
Mr President, it is important that the guidelines head in the right direction and that they guarantee the effectiveness of the programmes of the crucial seven-year period 2000-2006 so as to ensure sustainable development and job creation, particularly for women and young people, and ensure a balance is struck between economic and social policy and regional policy.
That time is now past.
I should say that the pieces of legislation that we have identified are intended to close gaps in existing legislation.
Madam President, we could have been debating the need to reinforce the founding principles of the Union, so that we can uphold them together.
Let us ensure, Mr President, Commissioner, that this time we really do learn the lesson, even after the media hype and the shock of this House have died down.
I should like to have an answer to that question.
Minister Gomes, I have, of course, heard what you have said and I hope that cooperation will clearly improve in this respect during the Portuguese Presidency.
I am certainly not forgetting the economic dimension of this matter, as the timber industry has been devastated and a whole population is suffering the tragic effects of this.
They should not be about creating additional layers of bureaucracy and red tape.
It has no right to do so.
Next we have the Puritan shift: the Teutonic Europe of the North, the Europe of the Lutherans, Calvinists and Quakers, wishes to inflict its moral order on us.
In other words, we should not establish conditionality, or we believe that it is more effective not to establish conditionality from the start, but, nevertheless, we should establish it with regard to the possible liberalisation of the second stage.
As a last resort, we would ask the ÖVP to look into alternatives.
I am voting in favour of it because it is inconceivable that the European Parliament, after its excellent political debate yesterday, should not adopt a stance on this matter.
One is subsidiarity.
Although there has been some slippage, I trust that the remaining Israeli troop redeployments will materialise soon.
The compatibility with the various national systems of law, as confirmed by experts, shows that criminal law is another area where Europe has a great deal in common, for example where the significance of the offences we have been discussing here is concerned.
The report also comments that in Greece there are no plans for medium to long-term measures aimed at reducing employment tax and insurance charges, or for the satisfactory use of European Social Fund resources to support employment policies, and, in addition, that there are no exact employment figures.
Valuable experiences were gained, and also the knowledge that we cannot master such environmental disasters using state-of-the-art technology alone.
Our additions therefore call for the provision of practical enforceable exit strategies so that not only can we have the requisite insurance against ongoing costs which are often loaded onto the taxpayer, but we also avoid the well-rehearsed syndrome of throwing good money after bad.
The time has come to implement the programmes, and so Member States should also assume their responsibilities and do their jobs properly.
The next item is the report (A5-0004/2000) by Mrs van der Laan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on giving discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Communities for the 1997 financial year (Section I - Parliament, II - Council, III - Commission, IV - Court of Justice and V - Court of Auditors) [SEC(1998) 520 - C4-0350/1998, SEC(1998) 522 - C4-0351/1998, SEC(1998) 519 - C4-0352/1999]
Moreover, I would also urge this House to take into consideration the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, adding a whole raft of thoughts on key areas such as combating social exclusion, support for the social economy and the implementation of the employment strategy.
Are we therefore talking about a car industry in crisis?
As I have said, we have both the knowledge and the resources to cope with these issues.
I am talking about the integration of the policies of the culture industry in this area of training and culture; they create jobs.
Yesterday, we also discussed the Commission, represented by Commissioner Barnier, who gave its opinion.
What Parliament needs to do as a matter of urgency though - and this is why we intend to vote for recital 1 without these recommendations - is to send out a clear political signal to the Commission and Council that we want to see a clear legislative act put an end to this disorderly state of affairs.
Today - and I must say this with pride and satisfaction - this Parliament has had a good opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which we Europeans believe that the European political project is much more than just an internal market, and that it is based much more on principles than on economic interests.
I am particularly in favour of a proposed amendment tabled by my Group to paragraph 10, to ensure an appropriate level of private sector involvement in the planning and implementation of the projects.
They were not unique to 1997 and two strands seem to run through them.
Surely these subjects will be of the greatest relevance to a revision of the treaties which will contribute to the stability of the area of freedom, security and justice?
In this connection, I am very glad to say that soon after the Socrates and Culture 2000 programmes get under way officially at the meeting of the Council of Ministers in March in Lisbon, the country holding the presidency of the EU is to organise a conference to discuss the situation of public libraries.
Economic and social cohesion in the EU is a fundamental task of this Community.
Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PPE in favour of this proposal?
Only, the number of people affected by these programmes has not really dropped.
In April 1999, the Commission adopted new Rules of Procedure which introduced specific rules on repayment.
I welcome the movement towards the recognition of judicial systems in the various countries and the cooperation on crime.
As was emphasised at Tampere, and as part of our preparations for the Feira European Council in June 2000, we will have to prepare a summary of the implications of the new external dimension of justice and home affairs with a view to adopting cross-pillar policy strategies, which strengthen the links between the Union' s internal and external policies in this field and help to uphold the Union' s position on the world stage.
It is of decisive importance to get local business, organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes.
The Commission has just published its opinion and it has done exactly what Parliament asked of it - to bring forward a comprehensive proposal complete with actual draft treaty articles.
I should like to comment on the concerns which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has with regard to the largest of the four Community initiatives, INTERREG III.
Today, if 314 Members of Parliament yield to the strength of the lobbying of some car manufacturers, we should be doing ourselves dishonour.
No decision has been taken in relation to that other than to say that it is more likely that the Authority will be located centrally rather than on the periphery.
Mr President, I would very much just like to add to two particular points.
The common position, which was arrived at with great difficulty in the Council, which the Commission has endorsed and which was also maintained in Parliament' s Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, complies fully with the environmental requirements. I therefore find it incomprehensible and very curious to see amendments from members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the objectives of which are to weaken the environmental requirements and significantly reduce car manufacturers' liability.
On the same day, I understand, Mr Balfe gave permission for the assistants to go ahead.
Thank you, Commissioner.
I believe that we should be pleased about this.
We should be aware, for example, that Shell and British Petroleum refused to use the Erika to transport their oil.
When implementation of the programme begins, I hope in particular that the scope it offers for literature and the translation of books can be utilised to the full. I believe and hope that, despite the assault on us all of the new technology, literature will maintain its status.
This recovery is the logical consequence of the efforts we have made, but it comes at a price: it follows the restructuring of public accounts in European countries, which have kept inflation under control with a policy wisely intended to control costs and increase productivity in a Europe that has begun a vigorous restructuring of its own industries, banks and public services, even though this process is not yet complete and still has a long way to go.
We have to bear that in mind when approving this programme.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an exceptionally fortunate circumstance that we are debating the EQUAL initiative in the European Parliament just at this time.
We can now see that there is perhaps some reason for this warning from Parliament.
The Presidency will also concentrate on discussions about creating a digital television system in Europe, which will be the subject of a conference that we shall be organising during the Portuguese Presidency, in conjunction with the Commission, in February 2000.
It is a 'Trojan horse' which is unfortunately reappearing in Europe larger than ever since the Second World War.
It should continue along this path.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
Thirdly, a strict age limit on vessels to be given access to Community waters must be established in the near future.
Obviously, the cohesion policy exists for less-favoured regions and cooperation and joint action by the Structural Funds, the Social Fund and the Agricultural Fund exist for the cohesion policy.
This idea will be the focus of much scrutiny and debate.
You pointed out the quality of the report and you even wrote, if I am not mistaken, that it marked a real improvement in comparison with previous reports.
I believe that is something we are all desperately in need of, bearing in mind the results of the last European elections and of the level of turnout.
On the other hand, more pro-active attempts, such as OLAF, which is currently operating, have not allayed legitimate concerns about the system of guarantees for individual rights.
Clearly some people are profiting from the opportunity to indulge in another budget bidding race which is particularly mistimed when the convergence criteria for EMU are imposing a very strict slimming regime on the national budgets.
In other words, once this study is complete, the Commission will issue its opinion as soon as possible.
In the meantime, let us support this first step.
I would also like to say that competition policy will play a valuable social, as well as economic, role in the European integration process, as it has done in the past.
We keep reminding them about Article 6 of the Treaty.
Should we not make a point of cleaning up our own act and putting our own house in order before we plunge into constructing grand new institutions!
Although I am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation, having access to EQUAL, I would support the possibility of access for all other asylum-seekers and refugees.
The Austrian People' s Party must accept some historical responsibility for this.
It is precisely those who feel the need to control everything that end up controlling nothing at all.
However, I can assure you that we do not, with the existing measures - which you have referred to - reach these severely less-favoured regions.
(Applause from the PSE Group)
Also, it is a good thing that we should clearly lay the burden of responsibility with the manufacturer.
The fact is that the Commission has not amended the regulation for years, although Parliament has been calling for it to do so for some time.
We look forward to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and to seeing its contents.
That is why sweeping reforms are necessary and, hence, a widened IGC agenda.
- (SV) Obviously, the political leaders of Europe have a right and a duty to react against Mr Haider and his party.
Not only do we owe the sweeping reforms to the new Member States, but we owe them to ourselves.
This question ought to have been asked when the new Commission was appointed.
It is just as good environmentally to burn old plastic as to burn new oil for energy recovery.
I think that we have also opted in favour of allowing the budget to be of an adequate size because, if it happens to be cancelled, then surely this does not benefit the citizen.
We must, therefore, ensure that at the Intergovernmental Conference we discuss how to consolidate the democratic bases of the Union and how to strengthen - and this has been discussed in the House even today, with regard to the situation in Austria - the system of principles, values and rights underpinning the Union and the role of the political institutions of the Union, with regard, among other things, to running the economy.
Our efforts to completely honour that pledge will be evident to the House when consideration is given to the reform package that was adopted by the Commission today, well within the demanding timetable that we set for ourselves four months ago.
It can only succeed if agreements are made which are solidly based on compliance with democratic principles.
A directive which we put together just for the sake of it would not be worthy of this House.
Therefore, Madam President, I would ask you to request that the Commission express its opinion on this issue and that we then proceed to the vote.
I live in a region where the ship-building industry now has very serious problems: Asturias.
Tomorrow, I shall be in London.
Of course, we are not in a position to dictate anything in terms of content, but I would insist on Parliament retaining the rights accorded it under Maastricht and Amsterdam, and even extending them.
If it should become apparent that one or more classification companies have provided reports by way of favours then they should be struck off the list of authorised classification companies.
There is nothing therefore that is open-ended or vague about the report which I have had the honour to compile.
We understand that the first priority is the economic and social agenda, which also includes what is known as 'quality of life' priorities, that is to say, the rights of citizens as consumers and as people, in relation to those questions which we always talk about, but never give sufficient priority to, that is, the European social model and its adaptation to the new circumstances, consumer rights, respect for the environment and sustainable development.
It should be noted that the oil industry, through the International Oil Pollution Compensation Funds, regards itself as liable under the 1969 Convention and its 1992 Protocol, for over 90% of the estimated cost of this incident, or some USD 170 million.
Mr President, as a new Member I am pleased to be able to make my maiden speech here today, even though there has been a delay.
This crisis of confidence has also had the unfortunate but inevitable effect of eroding the trust of consumers in the systems and institutions at national and European level that should monitor and assure the highest standards of food safety.
The fact that tax havens are frequently nothing but hard disk storage space for large European banks here at home must not be ignored.
There is prejudice at work here, which - without going into our programme - is reducing the darkest hour of European history to a political spectacle.
I listened very carefully to what Mr Seixas da Costa had to say on transparency and the Intergovernmental Conference.
But how do we make use of the sense of crisis to which this ecological disaster has led?
I can, therefore, only be delighted at the adoption of these directives thus amended. We could not really tolerate much longer a situation in which people legally resident within the European Union had to face so many problems.
So I ask that Ireland be remembered in this particular case.
Is it the case that the car industry definitely cannot afford these?
The current state of play - and we would do well to remind ourselves of this again - is that there are in fact judgements from the European Court of Justice relating to employees, I refer in particular to those relating to the Rush Portuguesa case and that of van der Elst.
So if she has any lectures to offer they are best contained within this House.
They should be able to establish themselves in new markets, but also to leave old markets.
But I would rather like to say something else to you.
Madam President, I would like to express my support for the decision of the Conference of Presidents, and, since I publicly criticised the presidency in January, I would like to take this opportunity to say, both for myself and on behalf of the Socialist Group, that we now find the presidency' s statements on this issue to be appropriate, and we agree on their basis, their importance and their form.
And it is precisely the medium-sized undertakings and large numbers of employees who suffer as a result.
Commissioner Monti and his colleagues have a tremendous challenge ahead of them and our worries in the ELDR Group are that there should be no weakening in the thrust of competition policy either in the examination of mergers or the monitoring of restrictive practices.
In the same respect, given that structural unemployment is responsible for 50% of all unemployment, the INTERREG funds made available must be sufficient to supplement national measures promoting employment.
So that is the first priority, the competitiveness of regional economies.
Madam President, unfortunately I do not have your mastery of the French language.
We accept that Europeans, particularly the younger generation, need to be given a broad perspective of where Europe will be in the years ahead.
The resolution stipulates possible diplomatic means to isolate the new government politically without even mentioning the root causes of the resurgence of Fascism.
I am raising the issue just to reiterate Parliament' s position.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, who really has chipped away tirelessly at this monumental task, in conjunction with the Commissioner of course.
It is, above all, the manufacturer' s resources we are wasting if we do not get to grips with a car' s life-cycle.
Permit me one further comment. Although it was less evident in the case of the consequences of the storm, the tanker disaster off the French coast has made it very clear that we need to give the Commission a helping hand on another matter.
Mr President, Commissioners, I greatly welcome the possibilities for increased trans-European cooperation under INTERREG, but my concern is that the proposal offers fewer opportunities in this respect for maritime than for other areas.
As far as I am concerned - taking into account my own concept of the construction of Europe and regional development policy in particular - this is a situation which I find unacceptable and I have every intention, as far as possible, with your support, of dedicating all the appropriations for which I am responsible to this improved social, human and territorial cohesion, particularly in order to prevent what I once called in this House a two-speed Europe, a Europe of wealthy districts but, at the same time, a Europe of impoverished areas.
The report was a major undertaking because it also incorporates opinions from four further committees - from the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, and the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
I should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for Commissioner Monti.
I urge that car manufacturers should most definitely not be given the task of organising the dismantling and recycling of vehicles, as they would gain an excessive hold over the second-hand components market.
The Commission is to do its job and give proper attention to the issue before we come back with an assessment of what needs to be done.
If you feel that these sessions after a Commission statement are important, I would suggest that we require more time than the half-hour that is allocated to them.
It simply adds to them, complements them, building a bridge between the various cultures of our various countries.
I believe there is also a need to raise the de minimis regulation.
The joint debate is closed.
By means of amendments adopted in committee, Parliament has tried to supplement the Commission' s work, by including new elements in the list of areas targeted for aid, and in particular external border areas and maritime border areas in Southern Europe.
An ad hoc directive should therefore be demanded from the European Parliament and the Council.
These cultural dimensions, however, almost always have their own economic dimension in turn, that is the level of resources which can be called on specifically to provide aid for cultural initiatives.
This extreme difficulty in seeing the contradictions of the current situation and, where necessary, confronting these is seriously limiting the will, duly confirmed by Mr Prodi, to grant public demands.
It is the manufacturer who has to provide the infrastructure and provide a reasonable part of the cost of disposal.
On reading both Commission documents, one learns that 1998 was the year in which the modernisation proposals introduced in 1997 were pursued and even partially completed, which is something our own ongoing parliamentary work has taught us.
Mr President, Commissioner, my contribution to today' s debate concerns the steel aid code, that is the state aid in Europe granted in accordance with this code and which was assessed by the Commission.
Disabled people have too often been left off the list.
I said that there was no consistency between the decisions taken by the Council and the policies actually carried out.
Otherwise, how will we deal with Communist countries which return to Communism: will we throw them out of the Union too if Communists enter into government, or will Stalin' s grandchildren be forgiven for everything?
Accordingly, we would like to take this opportunity to urge the Commission and Council Presidency to seize this political initiative, so as to avoid us landing in such a desperate situation again and having to restore our solvency at the end of a month. Rather, we must use this initiative to establish a long-term aid strategy for this country, and I hope that in the process, you will fulfil your political obligations at long last and not allow things to continue as they have been doing for the past few months.
First of all, we would like to express sympathy with all the families and communities that lost members in this terrible tragedy.
The prescribed objectives are most certainly viable and, in the Netherlands, a value of 86% recycling has now already been achieved.
It seems quite natural that given such a disaster, national and European solidarity should go to the help of the devastated regions and those people who have been worst affected.
Madam President, as a representative of the Freedom Party, I respect the concerns some of my fellow MEPs have with regard to the democratic developments in Austria.
In the future, funding will no longer come from three funds but from the EAGGF Guidance section alone.
Parliament is currently discussing this issue in another context.
Now to my fourth point regarding the policy; enlargement of the Union, the great political and humanist project of the coming years for our institutions, the major challenge, too, for the European policy on cohesion, a point which Mr van Dam highlighted.
It must become more flexible and more responsible to labour market conditions.
On the one hand, we have been asked to provide Parliament with information regarding the progress of invitations to tender and, in this respect, I can tell you that the Commission was last week able to provide Parliament' s Committee on Budgets with the latest statement of contracts and payments carried out since the task force was sent into action in Kosovo.
Mr President, I also wish to congratulate Mr van Hulten on this first piece of work which he is presenting to the House.
They are expecting us not to fall in with globalisation but rather, on the basis of our social model, to be able to organise globalisation.
Commissioner, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can be quite frank in saying that I welcome the Council's common position on harmonising the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway.
In our view, this would bring with it a complex legislative burden, and it would be preferable to have a political and declaratory charter which explains to citizens what their existing rights are.
Unfortunately, it was then changed, and changed for the worse, which turned it into a document which in fact, proposes something that we cannot accept.
All of this must nevertheless be done whilst respecting a broad framework - that of the overall acceptability of any solutions we may devise to achieve these three aims.
I hope that the debate will convince a few more people.
The European Union' s structural and cohesion policies are, without doubt, essential tools for creating the right conditions with a view to tackling and reducing the levels of economic and social disparity between the regions.
Mr President, it is particularly pleasing for me to make my first speech in the European Parliament on what is regarded as the most important issue within that part of the United Kingdom that I represent in this Parliament, namely Wales.
It is a scandalous state of affairs that must be ended with all haste, and I hope that February does not see this dossier being postponed yet again!
I will not go into the basic issue any further for everyone has their arguments.
The chapter of the White Paper devoted to the establishment of a European food authority is clearly designed to elicit views and comments.
All that remains for me to say is: time to get down to business.
We have set a figure of USD 180 million; in the United States they are talking about USD 1 billion as a maximum ceiling for covering claims payments.
It will also continue to fight for Member States' acceptance of this.
We do not hunt down criminals. That is OLAF' s job.
We have reached an agreement with all the parties involved.
If it is of any comfort to her, the Irish have not got their channel yet either.
In this second report, the experts have gone a step further and criticised some of the political groups in Parliament, which may have hesitated to remove the European Commission from office, since they shared the political affiliations of some of its members.
Yes, but the point is to make a qualitative leap and, speaking in political terms, this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, means convincing the other Community partners that to fall short would be the worst thing we could do at the moment.
Please let this not be yet another sector where we subsequently have to lament the lack of enforcement.
In the case of Turkey it is different.
I am making a personal commitment to do so.
Moreover, I wonder at the reduced guidelines to which the Commission wishes to restrict LEADER+.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr Prodi also announced greater transparency, but his draft regulation signals a clear backward step, and that is not only my assessment, but also that of the European Ombudsman.
I should also just like to draw Mr Dell' Alba' s attention to what the founding fathers of the European Union dreamed of. Take a look at Jean Monet' s memoirs.
The Commission has also entered into commitments to cooperate with Parliament in terms of SEM 2000.
A5-0012/2000 by Mrs Berger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on a proposal for a Council directive extending the freedom to provide cross-border services to third-country nationals established in the Community (COM(1999)3 - C4-0096/1999 - 1999/0013(CNS)).
A demanding, ambitious, perhaps even prophetic task and we wish you every success, Mr President of the Commission.
A project must never fail to be implemented as a result of difficulties in communication.
The Community initiative means community involvement.
The proposal to be discussed today, to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road, dates from May 1999, however, and could not therefore take account of the latest comitology procedure.
You have excellent Commissioners for both issues in Mrs Palacio and Mr Barnier, yet still you attach too little importance to these areas.
Mr President, the present directive is important in so far as it helps prevent our being faced with hazardous waste from end-of-life vehicles and in so far as it promotes the re-use and recycling of materials from scrapped cars.
If the opportunity is created to apply for service provision cards for one or more, or all, Member States, the procedure would be more flexible still.
The Commission should also pay attention to coherence between the various policies which are in place. It should make URBAN projects coherent with future projects in budget lines entitled 'sustainable urban policy' .
This, however, presupposes that we set up an internal scheme quickly in order to be able to guarantee the confidentiality of sensitive documents.
At the moment the Commission is consulting its staff representatives on the document, a process which will be finalised in the forthcoming weeks.
The debate is closed.
I also want to move towards a linear career system because the current category system is no longer adapted to the needs of our institutions.
Perhaps that will end scandals like the failure of states to deploy in Kosovo the police they promised.
The EU' s own regulations too may therefore need to be analysed.
Madam President, I would like to talk about an item on the agenda for Wednesday, which you have not yet announced.
We need to stop people passing the buck from one to another.
- (PT) Although this Community initiative, LEADER +, follows on from previous initiatives, it has some unique features.
I think that it is also obvious that our ability to act is linked to the Commission' s own scope for intervening, through its right of initiative.
Cross-border cooperation continues almost exclusively to be an issue concerning landlocked areas and, where exceptions have been made for maritime areas, their selection is not transparent and they often suffer from compensation from other Community policies.
Mr President, I would like to take up the matter of the statute for assistants, which we have always considered to be a priority, and inform you that - as the Italian delegation of the group - in response to the invitation from the group leader, Mr Barón Crespo, we have forwarded the contracts that we drew up with the assistants to the Quaestors.
Nearly 40% of businesses in this survey are still reporting additional costs to render products or services compatible with national specifications.
We must make sure that what we do makes clear sense.
The document is unfair both to Austrian Members of the European Parliament, and to members of the Austrian national parliament, and it smacks slightly of jealousy and political interests, but also of business.
When it comes down to it, Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty are not enough.
Many European cities are divided into neighbourhoods characterised by high-added-value activities and high-income residents and other districts characterised by low incomes, high unemployment, substandard and overcrowded housing and high levels of welfare dependency.
That should be the subject of another report and we will have to carry one out and consider that issue, but not in this report.
We also hope that the communication will help to build a better common understanding of how to manage risks and to dispel fears that the precautionary principle might be used in an arbitrary way or as a disguised form of trade protectionism.
I too must say that I will be voting for this joint text for a Council and European Parliament decision with a very heavy heart.
I feel an amendment of this type is essential to prevent the sort of administrative unwieldiness which too often acts as a brake on the proper application of new conditions.
Its borders are set not by how may countries want to join, but by how many countries it can accommodate.
There is a very simple way to deal with those stories.
I am not forgetting, and we cannot forget, that 80% of the citizens of Europe today live in towns and that is why this URBAN instrument is extremely important.
A laborious conciliation procedure would entail an unnecessary delay, at the expense of the environment.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Own resources
It contains plans for financial support for all the main renewable energy sources sectors.
At present, there are no common rules in this area, and we vigorously urge the Commission to make a point of harmonising the rules on repayment.
Third point: specific measures in favour of some social groups - some speakers mentioned them - women, but also immigrants and refugees, must be envisaged.
To this end, I would like to remind you of the resolution of 15 September, which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible.
However, we must aim higher in the long-term, let there be no mistake about that.
But do you envisage that the Food Safety Agency will have enough teeth to prevent something like the beef war that we have had and France's refusal to lift the ban?
I would also like to say that the Commission is prepared and ready to hold this debate whenever it is convenient and that we were ready to do so this week as we had agreed originally, on the basis that it would be presented the day before in a speech to parliamentary groups.
We could do rather more, considering that we have made great commitments in reducing CO2 and greenhouse gases and to reduce dependence on energy imports.
On behalf of my group, but also personally, I hope that the vital financial spirit of the Union will pave the way for the creation of a European legal system which respects citizens' rights and guarantees, which is to say a legal system that will raise guarantees to the acceptable levels hitherto unseen in many States.
This objective is very much to be welcomed and also meets with a broad consensus in this House.
So, we will try to be very clear about how and when to use it.
Secondly, we need to ensure that we legislate only when necessary - subsidiarity.
This would make our rapporteur' s life considerably easier in the future.
Mr Wynn, that makes sense.
We must therefore congratulate the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on having the wisdom, in order to make things perfectly clear, to reintroduce the clause making an exception of the vintage cars which are part of our industrial and cultural heritage.
Of course we have pondered this issue, and we are still studying it extremely carefully, and this is also thanks to the concerns you have voiced.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not always proud of the fuss that goes on here in Parliament, but the URBAN programme is one of the best examples of our work: it was created following an initiative in Parliament.
Briefly, just to follow on from that last point, I invite the Commission to make it absolutely clear that the Commission's objections, such as they are, would not in any way infringe the rights of Danish nationals to benefit from this scheme, but simply that the Commission has a concern, which it has the right to have under Community law, to ensure that the scheme applies to all EU citizens who qualify.
There was no majority for this at the time.
The next item is the continuation of the Council and Commission statements on the Middle East peace process.
I have been informed that the rapporteur has been delayed for several minutes.
The Union must not take on a whole range of new tasks without the basic foundation for a successful European economy being in place.
Firstly on the subject of the URBAN programme and the maximum threshold of fifty towns, which a number of you termed arbitrary.
There will be no problem with Danish nationals within Denmark, that is not where the problem lies.
Just like Europol. Europol, involving police cooperation, does not rank above the national police forces, but is there for the purpose of exchanging information between police forces.
As there are doubts, would it not be more advisable, from a political point of view, to put the reform of the legal system on the IGC agenda, and incorporate these proposals into the more general reform of the Union' s legal system along the lines of what is being requested for the European Public Prosecutor?
Naturally, it is not in the first place a question of cost; there can in fact be an enormous cost to society if the decision to take a particular measure is avoided.
From the many points made by Mr van Hulten in his report, I would like to highlight a few, not necessarily in order of importance but just randomly.
However, we are not surrendering this weapon without placing a time bomb in its place.
(Parliament approved the joint text)
. (DA) We have voted in favour of the report on the communication from the Commission concerning the guidelines for a Community initiative relating to the economic and social regeneration of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis and designed to promote sustainable development (URBAN).
What, also, will be the role of the food authorities which you are about to set up?
That is why this Parliament has put forward paragraphs 10 and 15 of the resolution, to ensure that Member States cannot ignore any one target group.
Nevertheless, to avoid the customary circus, which every six months has us indiscriminately attacking the Presidency of the Council, maybe Parliament should find the courage to undertake incisive political action so that the next Intergovernmental Conference will decide to increase codecision with immediate effect and not wait for another five years.
We would like to know their names and their faces.
The EU must adhere to the Kyoto Protocol on climate.
I hope that this conference will also encourage the Commission to take the issue of libraries into active consideration in the fifth framework programme in respect of the information society.
In addition we must build on the Council directive dealing with enforcement of international standards for ship safety and pollution prevention by ensuring that the inspection goal of 25% of ships calling at EU ports is met and that a high standard of inspection is delivered.
Amendments Nos 29, 31 and 41 water down the requirements concerning the dismantling of vehicles.
Madam President, I thought I had three minutes.
European competition policy, as we very often forget, is not just important for fair competition as such, but also for prices, growth and employment, and hence for the public.
We obviously have difficulties there with regard to the legal basis.
That foundation is clearly the single market.
In any case, the authoritative version is always, of course, the original language version.
To a certain extent, they are taken into account in the statistics on GDP and labour force surveys and, in any case, I wish to point out the efforts which Eurostat is making and shall continue to make in order to improve the quality of the statistics.
Lastly, we need to ensure that there is proper, genuine reform of the European Commission.
As for the Internet, Europe has finally found the courage to say that we need rules.
We use the experts to get as much scientific information and facts as possible before we take a decision; and that should also be done in the future.
You stated that the new European government requires strong institutions, while the Commission wants to focus at the same time on its core tasks.
I will not talk about codecision here, but this certainly does not mean I do not consider it important.
The Commission report is essentially a descriptive report detailing the development of state aid in the manufacturing sector and certain other sectors, according to various typologies, such as the method of financing and the objectives pursued.
It is your job to tidy up the mess left by national governments. These may well have grand visions when it comes to competition policy, but their capacity to wreak havoc seems boundless.
In my opinion, this is the only way if we want to gain the approval of the people with regard to Europe and their interest in Europe too.
Our response must be rapid.
However, I cannot accept that an EU body should intervene politically in the internal policy of one Member State.
I am filled with disgust when certain of our opponents get mileage out of the millions of deaths that took place in the gas chambers of the concentration camps as cheap propaganda, as, for example, the Italian MEP Bertinotti did yesterday on Italian TV when he accused Mr Haider of denying the holocaust.
President Duisenberg even attempted to attribute the weakness, the entirely relative weakness of the euro in relation to the dollar to this state interventionism.
The Commission proposes redistributing the INTERREG funding as follows: between 50 and 80% for strand A, 6% for strand C, and the remainder for strand B, i.e. from 14 up to a maximum of 44%.
We must create a permanent and truly independent, excellent and transparent system of risk assessment.
I share the Commission' s preference for the use of global grants while urging, however, that the accounting requirements of national and regional authorities should be precisely and painstakingly defined.
And, when we recall that, like many others on all sides of this House, my and my colleagues' instincts are naturally aroused.
Our position was made very clear on this topic in the 2000 budget.
We have to select locations by prioritising those which are most impoverished and needy, in accordance with the objectives set, that is to say, the social, economic, environmental and democratic management dimensions, as well as the relationship between them.
Whether or not this will encourage her to continue along the same path, I cannot say. Nevertheless, I would like to commend her on her work.
In order to do so, the monitoring committees must be opened to include Members of the European Parliament, associations and industrialists concerned by the projects and also civil society.
There is no problem with them telling us the way they feel, there is no problem with a possible meeting during Parliament's next part-session.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must challenge the monopoly the world' s speculative elite have on planning the world' s economy by remaining outside the tax system.
The low rate Tobin tax would not cause tax-recycling problems.
. (SV) Mr President, thank you very much, Mr Sjöstedt, for this question.
Deciding upon future policy lines, with a view to a new directive, rather hastily, without having had time to consult the trade unions or have discussions with all the social partners, I feel, runs counter to the spirit we wish to inject into the debate on matters which directly involve the social operators.
I do not believe we can be prescriptive in the area of science and advice based on science.
The new INTERREG programme, in the form in which we have received it, takes into consideration the needs engendered by enlargement to the countries of Eastern and Central Europe and to island regions and most remote regions.
I want to focus our minds on the essential role of the guidelines.
If this disaster had taken place in Guatemala or Turkey, we could have immediately used the Community budget to help the victims, but in our own countries nothing of the kind is possible because there is no suitable budget line with which to do so.
We need more dialogue, not just with each other but also with civil society.
This is what enables them to understand what is going on.
When, in 1994, over five years ago that is, I joined the Legal Affairs Committee in this Parliament, I became rapporteur for the environmental liability dossier.
It is essential that the Commission should have the benefit of Parliament's contribution to the shaping of what would be a key component of raising consumer health protection to a new plane and thereby restoring consumer confidence in the European Union's food safety regime.
I am sure they are aware that in mid-December we officially received the draft framework agreement with Parliament.
My feeling in this respect is that only a Council Regulation can provide the necessary legal certainty and ensure an official ban on any aid not covered by the code.
Decisions have also been adopted against a tax of this kind.
Allow me also - listen carefully to what I am saying now, because I have heard this reiterated in the debate - allow me to comment on the issue of vintage and "cherished" cars as mentioned in Amendments Nos 3, 7, and 9, section 2, and 35.
A number of Members of Parliament have quite rightly raised this point. If the Union is purely an economic union, then it is a stillborn project.
My fear - even if you shake your head, Mr Prodi - is that this will translate into what some countries have thought for years, that the Commission should be a simple secretariat for the Council of Ministers.
If the world' s other important currency trading areas were to be excluded from the Tobin tax, the fact that tax was liable to be paid in Europe would lead to currency dealing moving to those areas.
Where possible, one should also have the opportunity to present draft decisions in competition cases to the specialist chamber within the Court of First Instance.
Madam President, I would simply like to point out that during the procedure, we were not allowed either to table or, consequently, adopt amendments in the Committee.
However, the thing that worries us most, Mr President, is the decrease in prices, by 30%, owing to imports.
However, we shall intensify our collaboration and our dialogue with the national parliaments for the entire duration of the Intergovernmental Conference.
And this is the direction in which we expect the Danish and the other nine governments to move.
The Commission services set up a procedure for joint meetings and discussions with the Danish Government with a view to finding a common language and a common approach.
A reform of this point was therefore also necessary.
This is what we need for ships.
Mr Langen mentioned that the implementation budget proposed by the Council was initially FF 74 million, whereas the Commission proposed 81.1 million, a figure which the European Parliament supported.
The resolution also stresses that previous persecution of the Albanians cannot constitute a pretext for killings, abductions, detentions, intimidation, arson, looting, destruction of property and the taking-over of houses etc.
Report (A5-0010/2000) by Mrs Ahern, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of energy efficiency - SAVE (C5-0334/1999 - 1997/0371(COD))
Turkey is only looking to increase its energy potential by 2% with this unit.
Intergovernmental Conference
Assessment and publication are part of this, and it has of course assumed responsibility for these in the past.
All the more reason for Members of the European Parliament, Ministers, Commissioners to devote a little time to explaining matters to the citizens, to public debate.
It is nothing more than the States playing at taking from Peter in order to give to Paul.
Madam President, whoever has the honour, like myself, to chair the Committee on Culture, cannot fail to agree with the comments from various Members and can but congratulate the rapporteur, and Commissioner Reding, with whom he worked and who, even during the conciliation process, had difficult moments and opposed the Council - you have heard this said by everyone.
A socially just Europe is still highly topical, for what we need to do as a matter of priority is place the fight against mass unemployment and poverty firmly at the centre of the Union' s policies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please excuse my late arrival, but this other political issue is still on the agenda today, more is the pity.
I believe that globalisation has helped many countries which, so far, have been on the sideline of the world trade streams to participate in these and be incorporated into the world trade system and, as far as I am aware, no country has ever been worse off by participating in international trade.
I hope - and I thank Mr Monti for this - that the new rules will reflect as many aspects of economic policy as possible and that their social function will be guaranteed.
We are aware that in this age of strategic alliances and millennium mergers - in 1998 USD 2 400 billion was paid out in connection with take-overs - restrictive practices are being held in check, not just by our own rules but also by bilateral cooperation with the USA or Japan, or others, until we get the international competition law we so badly need.
There are poor regions within the Union which need to be given European assistance to improve the fabric of their economies so that they can compete within the European Union structure.
Mr President, I should like to raise a point of order in relation to the activities organised today by the Association of Parliamentary Assistants in support of their call for a statute for assistants to be adopted as soon as possible.
Not to mention that the large one may hide a gigantic one, as the very next thing we will see is a proposal for a European criminal law and then, why not a European Minister of Justice, supervised by an extension of the powers of the European Parliament?
Does this mean more flexibility, insecurity and fixed-term contracts?
I think that a strategic decision of this sort can be taken at European level.
I would merely say that the festive issue which Mr Dimitrakopoulos has raised is an extremely important one.
We understand your concerns and will certainly take account of them, particularly during the discussions that we will be having with Turkey to define that country' s own pre-accession strategy agenda.
But I believe that we should do all we can to keep the transport of dangerous goods to a minimum, in all countries, whether they are transit countries or not.
I believe that in this context, and in the context of the dialogue that the Council and Parliament will have to establish on the future of Europol and Eurojust, it will be possible for us to find an acceptable institutional solution to the relationship between the Council and Parliament with regard to Europol.
Oz' s impression is also echoed in the Israeli press.
The internal market needs a uniform competition policy, not only in terms of concept, but also in terms of application.
Retrospective law is bad law, it is unfair law and often it is unworkable law.
Allow me to say just one word. I agree that the working group should have met earlier but at least, once it did, important decisions were taken straight away.
In this House, in the past, large-scale debates have taken place on major strategic options which the Commission, under its power of initiative, launched, not as experiments, but as proposals which then made varying degrees of progress, but in any case did contribute to the integration and development of the European Union.
This would then give us, for Wednesday' s sitting, the two Council statements on the coherence of Union policies with development policy and on the UN 'Human Rights' sitting, followed by the joint debate on Cyprus and then the reports by Mr Swoboda, Mr Corrie, Mrs Frassoni and Mr Knörr Borràs.
In cross-border cooperation, greater emphasis must be placed on improving the conditions for the economic activity of the small and medium-sized undertakings which are the job creators.
Remember that the Marshall Plan was not effective simply because of the scale of its resources: it was even more effective because it made us Europeans work together towards a new horizon; it gave us a fresh outlook in terms of our politics and our economy.
It is a sector which comprises small and medium-sized businesses.
Finally, a compassionate thought for all the volunteers, nature lovers and bird lovers, who spontaneously and generously are coming through to the aid of the oil-covered birds, organising rescue operation with the means available.
We must put an end to the situation in which financially powerful organisations with representation in Brussels are able to access information whilst the ordinary citizen is not.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur.
Therefore, independence is prerequisite for effective checks.
You have received a letter of complaint from me about the number of mistakes in this report and in other reports with which I have had dealings recently.
Finally, Commissioner, we cannot forget that large sections of the economy are still firmly in the hands of the state, ranging from state television, which is funded on a mandatory basis by the taxpayer, and the Post Office, to some compulsory insurance schemes, including health and social welfare systems, which are managed by inefficient state monopolies which leave no-one but the wealthy user with any other option.
Unfortunately, however, it has highlighted the difficulties rather than proposing solutions.
People must realise this!
It is all very well for us, by mutual consensus, to make an effort in terms of budgetary rationalisation, but you must be very aware that the lack of resources, the absence of financial autonomy and the poor execution of the budget, continue to be urgent issues which must be resolved.
In my opinion, such a far-reaching scorched earth policy is really unnecessary.
Mr President, Commissioner, if we are honest, we find ourselves in a somewhat unusual situation.
I feel duty bound to publicly denounce the fact that fishing is absent from the programme which you have presented to us.
Would you be so kind as to write to me so that I have proof with which to tackle the competent authorities of both Air France and the French Government?
Subject: Promoting jobs for women in severely less-favoured regions Given the enormous difficulties in obtaining work which women face in certain severely less-favoured regions, and given that these women very seldom have any resources to draw on, in terms of either finance, entrepreneurial or cooperative traditions or even training facilities, living as they do in rural districts where 80% of the population is on the poverty line, what measures or actions are planned to help these women overcome the hurdle of their social environment?
The debate is closed.
First let me speak about the economy and social development.
1999 was also marked by the German Presidency' s initiative to draw up a European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In addition, we need - and this is my first recommendation - a legislative act that includes those offences which are to the detriment of the Union' s financial interests, and in which main principles are firmly established.
I do not know whether this information is correct, but the PPE-DE Group would, in any case, be grateful if this item were removed because Parliament has addressed this issue several times already.
And do you know why?
Finally, we have the problem of the consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty.
It is nevertheless important to reiterate the need for the main priority of these funds to be the development of the countries and regions with the greatest problems and of the outermost regions, of which the Portuguese regions of the Azores and Madeira are examples. This must be done with the objective of achieving economic and social cohesion.
This has now been done.
Our experience of modern administration tells us that openness, decentralisation of responsibility and qualified evaluation are often as effective as detailed bureaucratic supervision.
We find that the European Court is not able to provide us with interim measures in a certain dispute that we have with France at the moment, in which we have the support of the Commission.
In other words, there is a loophole here which must be filled and I will examine the solution advocated in the report in the interests of moving things on.
We were among the small number who denounced the communist dictatorship.
We will not achieve this just by undertaking a mini reform, as the Council has resolved to do, and that is why all institutions must come under scrutiny.
It would weaken a key element of European policy.
The common position was more feasible since it envisaged 2006 for vehicles already on the road.
There is no change in refugee policy in Austria!
So, in the first part on the new forms of European governance, the words 'federalism' and 'superstate' are not mentioned at all.
Environmental standards will be a recurring theme.
Will Syria fully accept Israel' s existence and introduce democracy and the rule of law?
Of course, the final trade-offs will be made, as in any institutional negotiations, and I think this is no bad thing, at Council level, especially at the level of the Council of Heads of State and Government, who hold the key to the success of this conference in their hands.
This is far from straightforward but we will do what we can to make this possible, in close liaison with the US and Russian co-sponsors as well as the regional parties.
By not setting a specific date for the Member States to implement the directive and instead giving them a period of three months after its entry into force, we are introducing a flexibility clause which ensures that the directive will be implemented without delay.
Now to the form. On the subject of the role of the guidelines, Mrs Schroedter, you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of European objectives, often very precise ones, should be provided.
We are concerned by the deferment of the building of relations with Syria, as well as Mr Barak' s decision to postpone the withdrawal of the Israeli army and the Sharm el­-Sheikh agreements.
But we also know that we can only shape the huge challenge of globalisation together as Europeans.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am confident that this will be tackled in a suitably positive manner under your tutelage.
Mr van Hulten, my Group of the Greens and regionalists will support the attempts in tomorrow afternoon' s plenary meeting to embellish this report.
Mr President, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed an essentially positive text, which I shall vote for, even if I personally had proposed a lot of amendments to broaden it.
Perhaps this is a little worrying.
We must take action on this at the Intergovernmental Conference, and I firmly hope that this opinion, that was given reluctantly, will not mean that the European Parliament ceases to exert pressure on the Council and the Member States to make sure that this Intergovernmental Conference is not merely a technical exercise, but rouses the passions that we saw a few hours ago in Parliament.
The proposal of this tax today sends out a strong signal from the rich European countries proving that they want to move away from the culture of egoism.
In response I can only say that this already exists.
And it is not a question of links with the past; it is a question of prospects for the future, and nothing could be more wrong than the right and left taking a divided stand on this.
The Commission will then adopt the code at second reading.
If we do not take steps to deal with that, we will fail ultimately.
. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioners and members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I was given the task of drawing up the European Parliament' s report on the Community Initiative Programme INTERREG III.
I am also anxious to hear the views of Parliament in this regard.
The ship Erika has been investigated four times in the course of the last two years.
Another is for the Union itself to sign up to the European Convention.
Our common aim is to reform and strengthen competition policy, a pillar of the social market economy and of European construction.
It is extremely important and I recognise the concern of the honourable Member.
Could I also say, Madam President, that the understanding of the presidency, the Portuguese presidency, for our position, was absolutely demonstrated in the clearest terms by Mr Da Costa when he said, and I quote him, that 'Portugal and the other Member States want to ensure that the working of the Community machine is not affected by the current situation' .
The debate is closed.
There is no intention whatsoever to create a transnational criminal law and judicial authority, rather the aim is to equip the Union with specific instruments for the protection of its financial interests, that is whilst upholding the principle of subsidiarity.
We must also ensure increased strictness both in issuing sea-worthiness certificates and in monitoring the condition and the maintenance of vessels.
When projects are implemented, it is also important that they do not contravene general Community legislation.
Since Tampere, there has been an imbalance between positive action and mere declarations of intent.
The Commission acknowledges the fact that Turkey has signed and ratified the convention on nuclear safety and recognises that the responsibility for granting licences and regulating the siting, construction, commissioning, operation and decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Turkey rests entirely with the Turkish Atomic Energy Authority.
Having listened to the Commissioner just now, we know that the Commission' s knowledge of the facts will result in a 'no' to the Tobin tax.
I am delighted that it is being discussed in Parliament, but I also note the compromises and the omissions in it.
Nonetheless the Commission has provided a service and I pay tribute to Commissioner Barnier who is here with us today for doing that.
My second point relates to discussion about competition and the social market economy, although I am not going to talk about market failure just now.
Questions to Mr Nielson, who is replaced by Mr Patten
With regard to the four great priorities which President Prodi systematically refers to and with regard to his analysis of the challenges facing us, I would say that we are very much in agreement.
An urgent request has been referred to us, and we approve it.
He was right to point out that it is not a good idea to share out this funding between all rural areas.
The challenge of creating an area of justice and home affairs, of dealing with asylum and immigration and crime, is very political.
This is an important matter.
There is the fact that we have to take the interests of the economy and also of the individual into account.
Following the conciliation stage, our institutions can now formally adopt the new 'Culture 2000' framework programme.
It is not a lot to ask.
Ladies and gentlemen, none of us must forget what has taken place.
Let me remind you that when the guidelines were adopted by the Commission, in the form of a draft in February 1999, in line with a new procedure intended to make it easier to present comments on this text, my predecessor, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, presented them to Parliament immediately.
We succeeded there in agreeing, at an international forum, as to the definition of the precautionary principle.
This applies to those which have been turned into monopolies, both private and public.
Europe will press ahead with integration; at the same time the Union will start an enlargement process which will, in the end, reunite our continent.
If you charge this from day one, you can process the old cars straight away.
I am wondering, therefore, if you are preparing such a ban and if it would not fit in very well with your approach to the precautionary principle itself to come up with such an initiative.
But there are some questions still outstanding.
The process of reform has been going on for some time, and something like a state of emergency seems to prevail in the Commission.
Actually, I do not entirely share Mr Haarder' s view.
Given the fact that there are many houses in rural areas which are of historic interest, including small cottages, and, given the need, for a variety of reasons, to maintain rural populations and to attract people to rural areas, does not the Council agree that these objectives could be assisted if housing projects were funded in the areas covered by INTERREG?
By taking action in the field of culture, we are directly contributing to the construction of a European soul, especially given the fact that the sub-programmes which make up "Culture 2000" are superb.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
The legislative programme is, in fact, a litany of subjects over which the people are to be deprived of influence and in connection with which, Mr Prodi, you are to take influence away from the people, even on social questions.
For this reason, and I believe that this is a challenge we are all facing, I recognise the need to develop a communication strategy which will allow us to make the real added value which the Union brings to daily life accessible and visible to the public at large - in areas which are essential for citizenship, for legality and, ultimately, for democracy itself.
Without any doubt, this will then be a service, Mr President, to the European public and, by means of the results we produce, we will also regain and re-acquire something which we have ostensibly lost over the past couple of years.
When we had the earthquake in Greece, which was a big disaster, the Community had no instrument with which to offer its sympathy or solidarity to the Greeks.
However, if some of the amendments are accepted, particularly those presented by the PPE-DE Group, we would consider the report to be stripped of its value and to have become an inconsistent document, lacking in rigour and, in that event, we would reconsider our support.
We shall be developing it in four parallel schemes, in the Agriculture Council, the Health Council, the Consumer Affairs Council and the Internal Market Council.
Why has there been no fire drill, either in the Brussels Parliament buildings or the Strasbourg Parliament buildings?
And furthermore the Commissioner has not quoted from his bibliography this time.
That is what we rely on when we advise people on what to do.
Despite the steps taken thus far, these levels are still very high, and are unacceptably high as regards unemployment.
I therefore approve of the continuation of the initiative because, as I was saying, it emphasises the innovative development strategies and because it is more ambitious, even though there is still the need to make the criteria by which areas qualify as rural more flexible so as not to penalise rural areas with high or low population densities.
It would have been wrong for Parliament to have put in willy nilly every single recommendation that came from an external body because Parliament should have its own opinion on these issues.
The Erika was built at a Japanese shipyard and is single-hulled.
Mr President, I would very much like to thank Mrs Schroedter for the work she has done on this and to explain to colleagues that I am speaking for my colleague, Mrs Flautre, who followed this for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but who is unfortunately ill.
Secondly, we want to establish the fact that the manufacturer is liable.
I think, however, it is quite obvious that when it is eventually time to decide upon a particular step to be taken, it is often the case that there are many different courses of action to choose between.
The entire taxation system must be given an environmental perspective in the medium term.
People react by voting with their feet and go where they can earn a crust.
It is not about establishing original rights for third-country nationals modelled on freedom of movement.
I was wondering whether this is the correct procedure.
As the European Parliament, we can express our solidarity primarily by taking action in order to ensure the immediate release of emergency aid to the families affected by the oil slick and, at the same time, demanding tightening up of the quality criteria, on the European and international scale, of the regulations and standards governing the safety of sea transport, stipulating much more frequent inspection and sanctions that are a far greater deterrent to offenders.
However, we are also discussing the aid report today and the general competition report for 1998, and my contribution to this joint debate relates to the latter.
One area that I want to focus on, in addition to those already identified, is that of cultural diversity in Europe.
The laws against racism must be harmonised.
Charges brought against loyalists in 1999 totalled 193, while those against republicans totalled 97.
We, the Green Group, by and large support the common position.
The Union, like everyone else, has not yet understood how to present the EU to the citizens of the EU as a means of protection against the negative effects of globalisation.
Disparate actions are not effective.
I would like to point out to Mrs Albright that what we have read recently in the press is true, and that figures do not lie.
A directive on maritime safety has been in preparation for many years, but it is making very slow progress.
The voluntary participation of people in development programmes is something that is not always fully appreciated.
It makes no sense at all for the various international institutions and associations to be engaged in competition amongst themselves rather than investing all their energies in helping the people on the ground!
Parliament played a crucial role in Europe's response to the BSE crisis.
Konrad Adenauer once said - and he knew what he was saying - that the surest way to pacify a tiger was to allow it to devour you.
Just as the Court of Justice recognised in its order of 3 May 1996, the iron and steel industry is particularly sensitive to disturbances to its competitive operation.
They are most likely to occur if there is little democratic control on cash flow.
Like so many others, I too wonder where the people responsible are.
Mr President, the European Union' s competition policy has been of central importance since European integration began.
The competitiveness of the European steel industry also forms the subject of the Commission' s most recent communication, which we have not yet debated in Parliament.
However, it would be quite a mammoth task to establish such an Office.
As for me, I can say, after having debated it in the College of Commissioners, that the Commission is prepared to present the necessary legislative measures, amendments and directives to Parliament and the Council, in order to equip ourselves with the greatest possible level of safety.
Some of them also sail under the Maltese flag.
We need a framework of regulations at international level.
Regarding their content, as you know, ladies and gentlemen of this House, they are focused on three strategic priorities that your rapporteur pointed out very clearly but, at the same time, very passionately, as I understood her presentation just now.
I have thus proposed that the frost rating be lowered to -40ºC.
Report (A5-0012/2000) by Mr Berger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a Council directive extending the freedom to provide cross-border services to third-country nationals established within the Community (COM(99)0003 - C5-0050/2000 - 1999/0013(CNS))
Regarding a second matter, now, relating to the additional criteria, which should be taken into consideration in selecting disadvantaged areas. Here, too, I am willing to demonstrate greater flexibility and to consider other relevant criteria in addition to the Community criteria given in point 11 of the guidance project.
Drug dealing in particular fuels insecurity and delinquency.
Very briefly, I would like to thank the various Members for their interventions and to tell you that safety is one of the Commission' s priorities in the field of transport.
The FVO is made up of independent scientists and vets and so on who travel from some location where there is an airport - quite clearly we have an airport in Dublin.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
I have repeatedly emphasised that, indeed not just as a Commissioner, but in 25 or 30 years of campaigning.
As all colleagues will know - and many of you have approached me over the last six months - all exhibitions and such like are filtered first of all through the Comart committee of Parliament.
I hope that you will all agree that this is important progress.
"The more progress is made towards trade liberalisation, the more rules are needed", as Commissioner Lamy said during the Millennium Round in Seattle.
We need to look at the people who vote for these parties, and understand why this situation arises.
I should like to give you an example of one way in which you can meet these expectations relatively quickly in at least one small segment.
The Europe of Schengen clearly finds it much easier to hound the persecuted from the south than dictators, even though the UN estimates that we will need 159 million immigrants to maintain a stable population between now and the year 2025.
The salvation of European democracies is with nation states. Europe' s salvation lies in the cooperation of the nations of Europe.
Having given them thorough consideration, I can tell you that the proposals made under paragraphs 2, 4, 5 and 7 are acceptable to the Commission and are adopted.
After five years only four have done so.
I hope that the projects included within the programmes can help to provide solutions to these problems and to implement in practical terms the principle of free movement of workers which is in a bad way in my region!
We simply must realise that the directive on the table is a sound directive.
Possibilities for faster and more simple operation do exist.
My Group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the European Union as safe as possible.
We would then be overreaching ourselves.
I would like to express my sympathy with all those who are dealing with the consequences of the breaking up and sinking of the oil tanker Erika.
Mr President, Ministers, Commissioner, the 1999 harvest of decisions was indeed rich, so much so that it became difficult to gather, i.e. to put those decisions into practice.
Mr Berend, you expressed a wish that zoning should be implemented quickly.
Agenda
The Commission will make every effort to define the legislative framework, both through general provisions and through its decision-making practice.
I shall therefore reserve the right, if you permit, sir, to give you my own opinion, which, to a great extent, matches your own recommendation regarding what action we might take to combat the oil spillage using Objective 2.
Nevertheless, it raises some very basic questions.
It was clear too on the need to separate internal audit from financial control.
Madam President, I rise under Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and allude to the same point raised by Mr Davies about the very serious allegations made on BBC radio this morning.
The next item is the report (A5-0010/2000) by Mrs Ahern, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of energy efficiency - SAVE (C5-0334/1999 - 1997/0371(COD)).
It is with these phrases that Albert Camus, at the close of the long allegorical novel describing the difficult fight of the citizens of the town of Oran against the plague, reminds us, at the close of the Second World War, that the fight against Nazism, "the brown plague" as it was termed at the time, could not enjoy a definitive victory.
In the event we had to have several meetings before the Council finally increased this to a substantial amount.
The Member States would not accept a regulatory agency, so there is not very much point in your proposing one.
Chancellor Schüssel' s government will maintain the refugee policy of the former social democratic government led by Chancellor Klima.
They are no substitute for rigorous regular inspection.
Parliament must consider itself the need for improvements to its internal rules, administrative procedures and management practices.
There will be major problems with enforcing this rule at present, especially with smaller companies, as these cannot afford safety advisors.
Surely it is now about time that not only the Member States but that toothless tiger that is known as the International Maritime Organisation, and last but not least, the oil companies and tanker owners take on their responsibilities by acting to stop these ecological and human tragedies repeating themselves year after year.
(Parliament gave its assent)
Furthermore, Amendment No 43 does not fall within the directive' s area of applicability.
With regard to the remark made by Mr Karas, I am under the impression that he is talking about the possibility of people from Poland being used as employees in his country.
That is why it is imperative to stabilise the two major states of Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan in particular. That is why I would like to ask you what you are actually able to do within your own sphere of competence, how the negotiations with regard to the partnership agreement with these two countries are going, that is, with regard to political relations that is.
The free recovery system, for example, for old vehicles and raising the percentage to be recycled will increase recycling activities and the number of jobs this generates accordingly.
They put their own petty squabbles first, and the rest is history.
The problem is not that only 25% are inspected, but rather how we select, how we find, the ships which constitute the highest risk, through the age of the ships and the risk history of the flags.
It is to take new ideas and try them out in LEADER, with the participants on the ground, with the local organisations on the ground, with many non-governmental organisations, with the churches, with all those who have helped actually to get new ideas up and running in rural communities.
Programmes multiply and overlap and there is no way of ascertaining levels of implementation and effectiveness or, at least, this Parliament is unable to do so.
What, then, are the values of these Socialists who feathered their electoral nest in the last century by painting the idea of greater social justice in glowing colours for the benefit of the underprivileged, and who today are nothing more than the party of protected civil servants, full-time union officials and state capitalism?
That is what we are lacking, Commissioner: the political will to make a start in tackling speculation.
We need to consider it together, so that the new Objective 1 programmes and the plans for regional development, which have been drafted before the directives come into force, can be submitted for revision and proper assessment.
We shall thereby be able to replace poverty, dependency and alienation with equity, initiative and participation.
. Yes, Mr President, that is true.
Thank you, Mr Segni, I shall do so gladly.
My only regret is that my own commitment to open the European Reconstruction Agency on Monday meant that I could not take part myself in that trip to the Middle East, even though, as I mentioned earlier in the day - which is another story - events conspired to maroon me at Munich airport rather than transport me to Thessaloniki.
Thirdly - and perhaps this should be the first objective - the projects should principally be aimed at the complete rehabilitation of people and families, because man is not made for the law, but rather law is made for man.
There are certain other key issues: relations with Ukraine, relations with Russia, relations with neighbouring countries and more importantly, the important question of relations with the southern Mediterranean which will be a crucial point for European history, and for security and peace in Europe for future generations. In this regard, we have a responsibility towards the whole of Africa.
It is in this spirit that our parliamentary committee for example, has championed the longstanding idea of a public register of state aid, accessible via the Internet.
They merely touch on the - nevertheless important - issue of the possibility of assessing the progress made in relation to verifiable objectives which are completely consonant with the strategies followed in Community policies, and they do not pay enough attention to the implications of enlargement, so much so that they do not contain specific provisions or clarifications as regards either regional and national authorities, or candidate countries.
I am terribly sorry, Mr Hänsch and Mr Cox. I did not see you asking to speak.
Regional disparities must be overcome if the internal market is to succeed and prosper.
The danger is too great for us to ignore.
- (FR) The Commission' s White Paper on the modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty (now 81 and 82) certainly does not propose any "renationalisation" of competition policy, as some Members of the European Parliament fear.
You can therefore rest assured that the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left is committed to seeing that the Union gets on with the tasks in hand.
Having said that, one of the stumbling blocks concerns Article 12, i.e. the date on which the directive will come into force.
On behalf of my Group, I once again condemn these terrorist acts.
I should like to say that I agree with the tone which Galeote Quecedo' s speech set here.
We will soon see, and for our part, we will bear in mind any suggestions on this issue.
Of course I would add that I continue to support this committee' s amendments, which they adopted unanimously.
Now is the time for Europe to put its own house in order; to instil in its institutions - as the independent experts might have said - a sense of responsibility.
I think this is a better solution than proceeding now to extremely time-consuming explanations of votes.
I feel that today' s meeting is not a meeting of Europe, our institutions, with Austria or Mr Haider' s party.
The situation as far as self-employed people are concerned is that current Community invested legal rights do not afford third-country nationals the right to provide cross-border services.
VOTE
With these forecasts of the structural policy - which I know very well - and the forecasts of LEADER and rural development, we will not promote, as we should, employment amongst women in the severely less-favoured regions.
Attention must be paid in the LEADER+ programme to all the sectors of the economy in rural areas; only a combined effort will reap an optimal result.
I would say the same about Amendment No 2, which we would also accept with a slight modification, since the idea seems to us to be basically correct.
I have not been able to vote in favour of the present decision even though I agree with many of its premises. What we have here, first and foremost, is an incredibly ominous mixture of power, arrogance and impotence on the part of the European Union.
The European Parliament will have the opportunity to take part in the preparatory group for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
I urge the Council of Ministers and the European Commission to do the same.
Mr President, during the last EU Financial Perspective from 1994 to 1999, when there were 13 different initiatives in operation, the INTERREG II cross-border programme was an important initiative.
I would like to briefly comment on the Commission' s proposal to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road.
The White Paper also contains very important proposals in respect of controls.
We have opposed racism and the infringement of the rights of minorities.
Unfortunately, the European Commission has already moved ahead with its guidelines and Parliament' s position on the programmes for 2000-2006 does not carry much weight.
That was a point made very forcibly by the leader of my group, Mr Poettering, in his opening address.
This is a big problem in my opinion.
Can you?
How will these people be selected?
So why should EU arms producers profit at the expense of innocent people?
However, that is precisely what is happening.
The Council can act in accordance with Parliament' s decisions, or it can continue to miserably begrudge its association with the other institutions in this vitally important project.
First of all, Mr Andrews, you must understand that I do not agree with your interpretation of my colleague' s speech during the meeting of the Committee on Development. There is no contradiction between our two positions, quite the opposite.
We have enough agreements; they just need to be implemented.
It is particularly bad this time, not least because it has affected a major European State; an incident which could happen again at any time.
Things could well continue in the same way.
Any failure to comply with legislation is a matter that can be dealt with in the courts in the normal way.
The final part of my question is as follows: when will BSE testing be binding in all Member States?
In other words, 2000 will be a test of the political will to take Amsterdam seriously and to help to build the foundations for an enlarged political Union for the next decade - a test for the Council, for Parliament and for the Commission.
We have put down an amendment to that effect.
Having spent a lot of time at sea myself I am well aware of the sea's power and destructive force, which make a proper design and maintenance of ships and boats essential.
A central feature of the reform will therefore be a more rigorous process for tying the process of priority-setting into resource allocation under a system of activity-based management.
Mr Evans, legal certainty is, of course - and I am the first to acknowledge this - important for businesses, not just for the legal professions, although the latter do play an extremely important role in the construction of Europe.
I am referring to Recommendations 1 and 2.
It is inconceivable that the European Parliament, which quite rightly pays so much attention to respecting human rights, should fail to adopt a clear stance on this.
The rapporteur has also quite rightly stated that Parliament was not heard in time regarding the guidelines.
I wholly endorse what the Committee on Budgets had to say on financing and believe that we should remind the Commission that it really must press other donors to at long last pay their way.
In this context, it is important for those of us who support the idea of a Palestinian state that the latter should be as Commissioner Patten said, namely a state subject to public control, and that it should be a democratic state.
We trusted this Commission, from the outset, to begin work on all issues relating to greater equality for men and women.
These goals will be more easily obtainable only if the Intergovernmental Conference, which will draw to a close within the year, results in constitutional reform, providing the Commission with real and adequate powers so that it will no longer merely implement Council decisions or Parliament' s codecisions but will have to perform the role of a real European government.
We must incorporate the gender factor in science, research and all other European Union policies, in order to put an end to the structural discrimination which prevents women competing on equal terms in the labour market.
However, I would like to concentrate on the management bodies.
The Committee of Wise Men supports this.
We will be in a position to judge just as soon as the Commission presents its reform programme.
. (PT) We basically agree with the assessment and the thoughts put forward by the rapporteur concerning the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union.
This is not the first time we have seen oil slicks, whether intentional or unintentional.
This can only reinforce the concept based on a number of elements of good practice drawn from our experience of the current 1994-1999 programmes. I feel this augurs well for effective cooperation between our two institutions, at this time when programming for the period 2000-2006 is being undertaken, good joint working practice, which is, Mr Hatzidakis, backed up by something I am very attentive to: observance of the code of conduct which links our two institutions.
Consequently, Parliament believes it is necessary for the steel aid code to be amended in the light of the industry' s claims about unequal treatment, and for the Commission to provide the Council with follow-up regulations.
Neither will it stop raising vital issues. For example, how much progress are you willing to make and what measures, legislative or otherwise, will you be taking to combat the scourge of trafficking in human beings, child pornography on the Internet, drugs, and organised crime?
The debate is closed.
In the example which you mentioned, it is only logical that the teacher in a Catholic school should be Catholic.
The pictures many of us will have seen of oil-soaked birds being put down by veterinary officials were both distressing and tragic.
We think that the task we now have of establishing a European agency is crucial in order to give credibility to the single market, to stabilise confidence in this market, to break down some of the tensions between Member States in this area and even - it has to be said - to give the European Union a common approach for its dealings with third countries in areas of food safety.
The Agenda 2000 issues are, of course, ones that relate to your third and fourth strategic objectives, the economic and social Agenda and a better quality of life.
The same goes for the other countries, especially for the Palestinians, who are still living under military occupation and whose land even today is still confiscated in areas B and C, despite the Oslo Agreement and subsequent agreements. Between the period when the Oslo Agreement was signed and 17 October 1999, 174 000 dunams of land were confiscated, 8 462 of which have been taken under Mr Barak' s Government.
This is why the INTERREG Community Initiative was launched in 1990.
Once again, there will be no clearly defined party responsible.
I believe that this type of language is extremely dangerous and I would like to condemn it here and now.
We agree that it may be granted and we call on the Commission to be extremely vigilant in ensuring, once the decision has been taken, that the amounts are set aside and paid as quickly as possible.
Again, this is a way that we can help create better opportunities for jobs and for prosperity.
Hypocrisy to be regretted bitterly, in our resolution, that the agenda for the IGC is not equal to the issues, since in our haste, with blameworthy naivety, we are stopping ourselves forcing through this more ambitious agenda.
Certain sectors of European industry, such as the shipbuilding industry, air transport and the steel industry, which have been hard hit by existing competition policy, have suffered tremendously.
That was a stick used to beat the Commission by the duty-free lobbies who resented the fact that the Commission abolished duty-free in airports.
It is therefore out of the question that the European Parliament should be given any formal influence over the negotiation process or over ratification.
So we condemn that hypocrisy and the double standards, especially of the British government and the other largely socialist heads of EU governments and include that of the United States.
I should like to conclude by commenting on a third matter which is also of significance, namely an amendment tabled by Member of Parliament, Mr Ari Vatanen.
That is the key issue, delivery of these proposals.
Our internal borders, or what remains of them, no longer cause wars, but they do continue to generate economic backwardness, social barriers and a lack of cultural communication between the peoples of Europe.
Madam President, under Rule 29(4) you should be kept informed by political groups of any Members who have joined a new political group or who have left a political group.
There are reactions to this in some quarters since it does not comply with the liberal canons of beauty which stipulate that there must be no financial intervention in order support an administration.
The Europe we are building is born of the bitter experiences we have all suffered, and the Socialist Group condemns the insults which have been directed at the President of the French Republic and the Belgian Government, but also at the Socialists, who are European citizens as well, because, at the moment, the Austrian Socialists are being described as traitors to their country.
The market is not an end in itself; it must help to improve the human condition.
The European Public Prosecutor' s Office is nothing to be afraid of.
In its communication "Women and Science" , the European Commission informs us of its good intentions of enlisting the support of women to enrich research in Europe.
A compromise solution was therefore reached in order to achieve a balance between the need to reduce the biological risks, that is the species of fish being affected, and the socio-economic problems caused by fishing limits. This was achieved by fixing the TAC at an intermediate level of 16 000 tonnes instead of the 33 000 set in 1999.
Yet, every year we have the same problem.
We all agree that we should ask that, halfway through these programmes, when the assessment of the directives is made, Parliament should be given an equally influential role on the grounds that we are the citizens' representatives.
This report contains general points on what is referred to as the urban regeneration strategy for town centres and neighbourhoods affected by the crisis in the capitalist economy and its consequences, i.e. increasing unemployment, exclusion and delinquency.
Finally, the Commission's human resource policy must be modernised.
This is a moral obligation the EU and all of us have.
Some have said we have to accept the results of democratic elections.
I am sure that Mr Pomes Ruiz is encouraged by that.
Mr President, the President of the Commission was not being quite honest when he talked last week about the Intergovernmental Conference.
However, as the rapporteur pointed out, such aid is occasionally essential and may, in addition to enabling the survival of a specific firm, make it possible to contribute to sustainable development (Article 6 of the Treaty), services of general economic interest (Article 16) and economic and social cohesion (Article 158).
Corpus juris is something that was set up without any kind of public debate or public participation.
Finally, this directive should enter into force at the earliest opportunity.
Of course, we are not here to defend a particular national interest or a particular industrial lobby. We are here to build a Europe that is competitive on the world market and to safeguard jobs in economic sectors where we are actually competitive.
Because it is more sovereignty-sensitive it is more voter-and citizen-sensitive.
Just a few main points.
As I said earlier, there are always problems interpreting the directives of the European Commission both because they have a very general framework and because systems are very different from one country to another.
I therefore think that this issue should be included as a matter of urgency in the IGC agenda, and in itself this justifies a thorough revision of the Treaties.
Being able to scrutinise the administration effectively is the best protection against irregularities.
Producers must pay - although we all know that the consumer will ultimately suffer the consequences of this - and they must take responsibility for the costs before 2006, as some of the amendments propose.
What are the values of the Belgian Socialist Party, which only goes from paedophilia scandals to corruption scandals, via Vandam and Agusta?
This is particularly true of what Mrs McCarthy said about URBAN. I should like to thank her not only for her work and for the report which she presented but also - and I do not see why I in turn should not say so too - for all we owe her, for all you owe her as far as this is initiative, as well as, more generally, all we owe Parliament.
A simple reading of chapter 4, article 1 of the Austrian Freedom Party' s manifesto is enough to make any democratic conscience shudder.
Since there is often overlap between the two legal angles and cross-border violations against the Union budget are on the increase - they are also committed by those involved in organised crime - it is unclear as to where the responsibility lies amongst the Member States.
The problems remain and this gives rise to doubts.
One example of this is the 'Celtic' area which encompasses the territories of Brittany in France, Cornwall and Devon in the United Kingdom and Cork and Waterford in Ireland. This is an area whose locally-based economy is characterised by dependence on the fishing industry and the importance of the agri-foodstuffs sector.
Since then, the victims' families, who have not had the consolation of justice, since the pilot responsible has not faced criminal charges, have been awaiting solicitous financial compensation from the United States at the very least.
(Applause)
This could be of a maximum of 15 years of age.
Mr President, I understand that I have to do this very quickly.
Nevertheless, I recommend that we start, in the hope that the Commissioner will be able to follow the debate, and particularly the rapporteur' s speech, from her office, if that is where she still is.
Mr President, the scope and highly detailed nature of the proposals for necessary reform measures show just how important these reforms are.
How is Article 1 to be interpreted and explained in your view, as this will have important implications, notably for the accession negotiations and for our country, which shares common borders with so many applicant countries?
Subject: Commission's plans for presentation of a new social action programme It is important that the Commission present as soon as possible a new social action programme, setting out a specific plan with a timetable for implementation for both the legislative work in the area of social security and initiatives for framework agreements in the context of the 'social dialogue'.
Scientists will be employed in-house but it will also be necessary to liaise with scientists on a consultative basis and, in those circumstances, as scientists will have to travel, it is probably better that they move to a central location, once again where the parliamentary structures and the Commission and Council are based.
An appropriate statute and the right of movement and settlement for residents of non-EU countries is something which the Spanish People' s Party has been advocating for some time.
First of all, we need tough regulations, which can be implemented.
The possibility of using specified external channels will also be addressed.
Does this European Parliament support the ecological principle of manufacturer' s liability, that is to say that cars, once they have reached the end of their lives, are the responsibility of the car manufacturer?
At the same time we must not lose sight of the Palestinian track.
That is my initial response to the threshold question.
I therefore invite the Members of Parliament who form the great majority, those who last November ruled that the future of Europe was deserving of debates that went far wider than the Amsterdam leftovers, to take up their pilgrims' staffs and go and convince their own governments that this IGC must be extended, since this is permitted according to the resolution of the Helsinki Council.
I would say to Mr Elles that we are most definitely in listening mode.
We have condemned Basque and Irish terrorism.
Since 1996, Parliament has been calling for a joint fund to be created for cooperation with third countries in order to resolve difficulties.
But through this regional and environmental reconstruction plan we can continue the monitoring and the assistance we can give and that is, for the time being, the kind of frame we can use for the work of the European Union.
What is a fair society?
Therefore, once our legislation has been brought into line, we must follow this up immediately with appropriate law. We must also put in place systematic controls and finally apply the 'polluter pays' principle of responsibility which is, of course, supposed to be a deterrent.
Nor was any mention made of information policy and communications catering to the needs of our citizens.
Granted this, the new Intergovernmental Conference must not fail to include in its agenda issues which, properly addressed, would ensure the correct operation of all and not just some of the European Union' s institutions.
If they do not, if businesspeople feel marginalised, if entrepreneurs cannot take part, not only in managing but also in receiving these funds, we will have missed an opportunity to attain our objectives more rapidly.
We will cut back our time a little because the interpreters are working today in continuous session.
In return for this greater degree of autonomy, managers must be made fully and personally responsible for their actions.
The unease is justified.
Some workers have complained to the European Commission because they do not have the right to retire.
Anyone, therefore, who invites Franz Fischler to his house to somehow account for the fact that his nationality is Austrian, should examine their own motives in the context of a debate, which has been necessarily shadowed by references to xenophobia and even more lethal evils in this world.
The internationally agreed objectives for reducing emissions cannot be achieved by these programmes alone.
We should not be so naïve as to think otherwise.
With regard to the agenda for Thursday, following a request made yesterday in plenary, I propose extending the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance by half an hour to 6.00 p.m. when the vote will take place.
It is the international community, and specifically the United Nations, which should be held responsible for implementing Resolution 12/99 and, in particular, for the thinking behind this resolution and for the compatibility of this resolution with reality.
These projects must therefore be properly taken into account and must integrate sustainable development.
Mr President, this time last year the European Parliament set up a committee of independent experts chaired by Mr Middelhoek to investigate allegations of fraud, nepotism and corruption in the European Commission.
Happy Valentine' s Day!
I am opposed to making the car owners liable.
Sound democracy means being alert and not blind in one eye.
We are sure that there will be an important "reform dividend" as the modernisation measures begin to foster increased efficiency and better management in the use of resources.
More serious still is the fact that this is occurring while ignoring the new situation associated with the approach that has been adopted towards the enlargement process for the inclusion of regions such as Malta.
We European Socialists are in favour of a market economy with a social purpose.
Let me explain.
They are completely untrue, malicious, politically biased and were broadcast in the full knowledge of their falsehood.
The Treaty of Amsterdam, Mr President, has set the number of European Parliament Members at 700 and a debate is needed in this Parliament on how that number will be distributed among the enlarged Europe.
In conclusion, I would say that while some measures are heading in the right direction, we shall of course remain vigilant in order to prevent the snowballing of Federalism which, if it were realised, would be to the detriment of Europe and the sovereignty of the states.
We have to find some way of putting pressure on such countries to do just that so we can reconnect with our citizens.
In fact, this directive, like so many others addressing environmental issues, is not good.
I believe that biodiversity is good, as is cultural diversity, but not diversity in the application of the law with regard to the essential core of the internal market, that is to say, competition law.
The Commission is planning in particular to develop a genuine European policy on asylum and immigration. It wishes to boost judicial assistance and cooperation and to develop an effective approach to the fight against all forms of crime" .
We must liberalise trade within the region and between the region and the European Union; we must contribute to building infrastructural links that will end its centuries-old isolation; we must intensify efforts to build a democratic, pluralist society in these countries with institutions, public structures, police forces and a structured civil society, but, above all, we must press these countries to work together in the context of a united region, as regards both politics and the economy.
It can accept all of the others either in full or in essence.
The German Government' s intervention to save the Holzmann group was criticised as an unjustifiable constraint upon the market economy.
One of them is the series of measures which must be adopted immediately in order to deal with the specific effects of social exclusion. The second is to create internationally competitive conditions, which will enable us to improve the economic fabric of the European Union, and this will have positive knock-on effects on the problems of social exclusion.
I hope that the Commissioner will accept the proposal which we are making.
Concentrating to the exclusion of all else on supply and demand-orientated economic policy is not the answer.
There is the risk of creating a monopoly within the car dismantling trade.
Is this not, indeed, what is so distressing to some Socialist Members of the European Parliament?
I understand where the authors are coming from and I share their views.
The truth of the matter though is that we believe - and this is also shown in the way the conclusions have been drafted - that the Commission must take account of what is adopted by this Parliament, particularly in the face of an interim revision of these directives.
Well, the Structural Funds have helped to apply a brake to this process.
The debate was fixed for this morning and on that basis I had arranged to see visitors from the Balkans this evening.
For twenty years, the majority within Parliament has attempted to make European environmental policy greener.
Greater precision in the selection process will lead to greater effectiveness, because the money should not be squandered recklessly.
Mr President, ever since I was elected to this Parliament in 1994 I have never witnessed a report which had such anti-Irish sentiments and overtones as the Jonckheer report which we are debating today.
(DA) The Danish Social Democratic Members of the European Parliament have chosen to vote in favour of the proposed resolution, but are at the same time aware of the fact that certain areas clash with the reservation Denmark has in the legal sphere - a reservation which the Danish delegation in the Group of the Party of European Socialists naturally wishes to respect.
But more especially because, even though at first sight the European market guarantees us improved functioning of the economy, it may also be a source of inequality.
I regret this, but the vote has already been taken and the decision is made so let us leave the matter there.
While, since the dawn of time, the market has been the key forum for human interchange, it has never been perfect.
(FR) This report takes us back to the question of why we even have a regional policy.
And finally, in conclusion, our demand regarding the future responsibilities of the European Parliament in the matters we are discussing, competition policy and state aid, in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference.
That will require a new political culture, not only in words, but also in practice, which will take into consideration the reality of Member States and regions.
It is not enough to claim to adhere to democracy in order to be a democrat.
We shall therefore get straight back to work on this White Paper, although in order to finish it, we shall have to wait for the results of the Intergovernmental Conference, and it will therefore not be ready until spring 2001.
It would be interesting to hear whether the Commission is also prepared to set aside financial resources for those who have disabilities, so that they too might venture further out into the world than merely to where their wheelchairs take them.
Mr President, Commissioner, following close scrutiny of this report one cannot escape the conclusion that it was possible to fulfil the stated objective of the structural policy only in part.
That is why the Commission wants to keep the right to withdraw a case from a national competition authority in the event of incorrect application.
On the contrary, you are deriding the true victims of National Socialism and playing down what the fascist dictators did.
(The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.)
The Commission will also support the presidency' s efforts to clarify the judicial framework and the framework for police and judicial administrative cooperation in the fight against money laundering, an eminently cross-pillar issue.
What is also missing is a paragraph concerning the EU' s shared responsibility for the social and political developments in Europe and Austria which have been among the prior conditions for Mr Haider' s electoral success.
Obviously we all have different approaches which is demonstrated by our debate and the motions for a resolution tabled at the beginning.
Secondly, we welcome the solidarity between the French departments and citizens, and the solidarity of other countries with France, which is the country worst affected.
It is absolutely essential to put an end to this floodtide of irresponsibility, irresponsible charterers, untraceable shipowners and lenient certification companies.
Does the Commission support the Council?
However, I would like to address Commissioner Barnier and support the argument of Commissioner Wulf-Mathies and the Director-General, because I think they were absolutely right.
Denouncing a democratically elected politician as a Nazi does not make you an anti-fascist!
No, there must be no undermining of OLAF' s authority, and neither do I think this was the rapporteur' s intention.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Schroedter, the rapporteur, for her work.
Nevertheless, at the last Fisheries Council of 1999, held on 16 and 17 December, the Member States involved in this area of fishing, namely France, Spain and Portugal, considered that applying the precautionary principle which sets a TAC reduced from 5 000 tonnes to 2 000 tonnes, as the Commission proposed, was excessively cautious.
Overall, I am not dissatisfied with the present common position and certainly not with the philosophy underlying that common position.
Key stakeholders, including consumers, are seeking a system that is independent and perceived to be independent of all vested interests.
We are counting on the Portuguese Presidency, we are counting on ourselves and we are counting on the Commission so that we can hold constructive and decisive debates on all of this at the Intergovernmental Conference.
I will quickly conclude by mentioning the last two points of our programme: the economy and quality of life.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
The majority have made their approval of the accounts conditional upon the new Commission' s implementing a series of reforms, so as to ensure that what we are familiar with from the previous Commission' s period of office is not repeated.
For a long time, probably a survival of our colonial heritage, our regions have fixed their attention on the European mainland, ignoring and even scorning their closest neighbours.
I hope colleagues in this House will support the grounds for discharge for 1997 and, at the same time, that the Commission will push ahead with the reform process which is long overdue.
Madame McNally, in general, I am myself rather concerned at the increasing number of problems we are having with the translations.
This would be a minimum requirement, I believe, on the dawn of the third millennium.
I agree that the European Parliament did not have the opportunity - or that it was not given the opportunity, as we had reached the end of the parliamentary term - to discuss the directives.
We need to clarify the liability for transactions.
Much remains to be done, however, and I call on the Commission to be far tougher in exposing the subsidy junkies of Europe.
In this particular case, I can assure you there was a large majority in favour of the directive which we have just voted on.
In my opinion, we should not jeopardise that common position, because it is a directive which we desperately need for environmental reasons.
The local councils and regions where the money ends up have since gained practical experience.
At my hearing last September, I promised speedy delivery of this White Paper.
This is a place where we share the same values and where each and one of us also have our own task and responsibility.
The considered view of this Parliament in the consultation period over the next four to five weeks will for obvious reasons be of great significance.
Following completion of the service, it is not acceptable for the third-country subject in question to remain any longer in the Member State in which the service is provided.
The beginning of the talks with Syria paved the way for a convening of the multilateral steering group in Moscow at the end of the month.
The old mindset which involved sweeping things under the carpet and protecting one' s friends unfortunately still exists.
A major part of Wales, as you know, has been granted Objective 1 status under the Structural Funds programme.
I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that.
All of us here are pleased that the courts have acquitted him and made it clear that in Russia, too, access to environmental information is a constitutional right.
This applies to Amendment No 5, excluding section 1; 8 and 9, section 1; 10 and 12, section 3; 15, 16, 20, 22, 24 and 25.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Theato on her report.
If we find that any Member of this House or their employees collaborated with the BBC in this farrago we will expose them to the opprobrium of this House.
- This report calls for drastic cuts in the level of illegal state aid dished out by some Member States.
I should therefore like to thank you most sincerely for your contribution to the thinking which we are already engaged in with regard to the forthcoming guidelines, as well as for the proper application of the guidelines for the period 2000-2006.
These are serious allegations.
This is the reason why I feel that the European Parliament, which has more freedom of action and more freedom to speak than the Council or the Commission, must pay tribute to those people in the various States and European institutions who had the courage to say no, and it must say, Madam President, that you made a statement on our behalf which does us credit, and in clear terms declare, without prevarication, its opposition to and condemnation of imminent events in Austria, recalling the statement made on the day of the Munich Agreement by a great French Christian Democrat who said that, if you are going to have to say no, then the best time to do so is right at the beginning.
Madam President, my group was one of those which wanted to have a document allowing an exchange of views on the Commission' s strategic objectives within the group before this debate, instead of being reduced to an on-the-spot reaction in plenary.
Also, the observation that the disparities between regions within Member States sometimes even become more pronounced raises serious questions.
The first and most serious criticism concerns the Commission' s propensity for rather grandiloquent self-satisfaction with regard to the European Union and for a cursory and even condescending view of our partners.
That is precisely what we do not want in the European Union.
There are those who are in favour of new agreements between Israel and Syria, but only a few focus on the real problem at the heart of the Middle East issue.
The Financial Regulation should be amended.
We will continue to do that, Madam President, without fear or favour.
In itself, globalisation is positive.
So Parliament should send a message, since that is the wish of the vast majority.
Even America has now said that it is considering breaking off diplomatic relations.
In fact, it is in many respects pioneering work when it comes to re-use and manufacturer' s liability.
We had very little coverage in Ireland of the tanker that sank.
We need to have a long memory when it comes to the demands being made in the ports.
I would first like to express my heartfelt condolences to the families in mourning as a result of the appalling weather conditions that devastated Europe in December.
However, it is not under threat from Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what has occurred in a tributary of the Danube is considered by many experts to be an accident on an environmental scale as serious as the scale of the Chernobyl disaster.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on rural development held in Cork from 7 to 9 November 1996 set rural development as one of the European Union' s priorities since it is essential in order to maintain the existence and continued development of agriculture, to provide farmers with an environment containing the necessary infrastructure and services, and to ensure greater respect for the environment and a better quality of life, diversification and job creation.
But for my part, I am not sure that it would add much practical value to our efforts.
Administration-wise there are now 34 tax inspectors.
We voted clearly in favour of the introduction of this instrument, together with an implementation committee, which would be attached to the Commission in just the same way that a corresponding database would be.
We will have to enlist the support of the many existing networks of women scientists and to obtain their assistance in framing a joint research policy.
The men and women on the move throughout Europe pay for their car and their catalytic converter, pay their national taxes and the tax on fuel and are therefore already paying a high price for their magnificent machine and their freedom of movement.
But I would also like to make it very clear that President Prodi made a commitment to this Parliament to introduce a new debate, as Mr Barón Crespo has reminded us, which would be in addition to the annual debate on the Commission' s legislative programme, on the broad areas of action for the next five years, that is to say, for this legislature.
Report (A5-0104/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 94/55/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road (COM(1999)0158 - C5-0004/1999 - 1999/0083(COD))
Here, projects covering only one region or one country will not receive support; they will have to cover neighbouring regions in two or more countries.
I particularly welcome his recognition of this virtuous circle of having sustained growth: the information society in an expanding European market with the addition of a fully functioning single currency which will give us the opportunity to genuinely promote prosperity, innovation enterprise, the entrepreneurial spirit and yes - most importantly of all - extra-high value sustainable jobs for our European citizens.
We had reached this agreement on principle in the Conference of Presidents.
The most discerning decisions are made by the consumers of Europe.
How is it envisaged that the EU' s institutions, which are already stretched well beyond their capacity, can bring the ambitious projects concerned to fruition?
The Commission, like others, has urged dialogue.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
The victims are waiting outside.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
Finally, I would like to mention technical assistance.
The car industry - and Belgium produces a great many cars- did not have any problem with that.
This, as well as the deficiencies in the networks of infrastructures and services and a generally very low level of employment, which furthermore is seasonal and lacks diversity, exacerbates the exodus from rural areas.
the number and responsibilities of Commissioners
This is why, Madam President, I should like to see Mr Prodi clarify tomorrow exactly what significance he meant to give these words, so that nobody, absolutely nobody, can use this message, which is unusual and unwise, to say the least, to contribute, and that includes counter to the intentions of Mr Prodi, towards making the dangerous political operation taking place in Austria a commonplace.
Countries that claim to be at the heart of Europe but which systematically break its rules should be named and shamed and their hypocrisy revealed.
Agreement on burden sharing must therefore be at the top of the agenda.
I thank the Commission for doing that even if, of course, I do not agree with everything the Commission said.
It must also cooperate with the Member States in order to improve the quality of data in good time, which is to say in time for the ninth report.
Efforts should be made here to achieve shorter times.
The Council, Commission and Parliament are all agreed on the content but there is disagreement on the transitional period for implementing the directive.
You comment that these guidelines were adopted at too late a date, stressing, particularly your rapporteur, the risk that the previous programmes will be interrupted.
During debates in committee, we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating INTERREG with other annual or biannual financial instruments, such as MEDA, TACIS or PHARE.
I hope that this is a misunderstanding.
Unfortunately we are not able to give guarantees and we can only continue to monitor and try to do the clean-up exercise.
And indeed there is a twofold shift.
This was, after all, one of the causes of the downfall of the last Commission.
These are amendments which we believe will lead to transparency and openness, which is very important with a view to making the internal market work.
In many cities in France and England there are now slums, breeding grounds for many sorts of problems.
Cohesion policy needs to be strengthened further because a Europe which totally disregards the standard of living in its regions can neither be reliable or viable.
An important part of this directive is the issue of what to do with used parts.
This would allow too many anomalous projects to slip through.
It should provide equal opportunities for all those at a disadvantage in the European Union.
If we admit new Member States then we need to put our own House in order first.
The Commission has the same opinion of similar amendments to the second proposal.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group cannot vote for approving the accounts for 1997.
In the environmental field we have just passed a directive on marine pollution.
For example, adapting EQUAL to the objectives of employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations transforms this initiative into a new version of local employment contracts.
The White Paper intends to resolve these problems and we therefore support these proposals.

Certainly not!
Marinho Report (A5-0003/2000):
Finally, you are daring to condemn and penalise the free and democratic vote of millions of Austrians, or are allowing this to happen, just because the result does not suit you.
Too many young, new officials are leaving their jobs after just a few years.
How, though, is the Union to be enlarged if we do not do the job properly now, i.e. before enlargement takes place?
But at the mid-way point or end of that period there is no effective way of terminating the project if it has not proved successful.
Middle East peace process (continuation)
We have seen this in the aborted Seattle Conference and we are now seeing it in the bilateral conferences with different regions or countries of the world.
It represents the possibility of sustaining a European identity in the twenty-first century, an identity which eschews the echoes of division, of war, of poverty, of opportunity, of poverty dans la realité.
I think it is also interesting to add state aid and Community aid, which may be assimilated in some way into state aid.
Indeed when the plan was initially drawn up they said it would be restricted to cases of fraud against the EU budget.
The Commission would like to stress in particular that, in the drafting of the code, it has taken on board all the draft recommendations of the European Ombudsman.
However, in spite of the reservations I am expressing on the paucity of the financial allocation, I personally support the compromise, by virtue of the programme' s content, to which the European Parliament made an active contribution as, following the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, this sector become subject to codecision.
No, to my mind this would only serve to deepen the credibility crisis facing the Union.
At present, the main difficulty in approaching the negotiations seems to be that the Palestinians are insisting that the border issue must be agreed upon first, while the Israeli Government says that it should be settled only if a solution is reached on the issue of settlements and security.
The tune that will be played will be one that the people of Europe will be listening to and they will want to hear the right sort of tune.
So what we did was use political means to convince some candidate countries that we have to have decommissioning plans for some reactors that are considered not to be upgradable.
Logically, in order to be given such a card, the employee must be legally resident in a Member States and must be covered by a social security scheme.
I would now like to move on to Lord Inglewood' s remark.
It is also important to bear in mind that there are a wide range of measures, which can be taken in applying the precautionary principle. For example, a research programme, public information campaigns, recommendations and so on.
Next, reliable technical inspection must be established like the technical inspection compulsory in France for vehicles more than five years old.
This is financed by a fund to which the buyer of a new car contributes.
At the end of the day, I honestly do not believe that this fear is justified.
The next item is the report (A5-0009/2000) by Mr Graça Moura, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a single financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation ('Culture 2000') (C5-0327/1999 - 1998/0169(COD)).
As in other sectors, the general ban on state aid according to Article 87 (1) of the EC Treaty also applies to the iron and steel industry.
Although a study produced by the Commission would doubtless be interesting, we do not need another to add to those already available.
We also need a code of corporate conduct to make sure that companies in fact work in partnership with their workers in the management of change.
The second area is that of freedom: freedom to move and reside wherever one wishes in the Union; freedom of information; freedom to vote for all who have European citizenship - and that includes not just Member State citizens but third country nationals.
It cannot be copied arbitrarily since each Member State has its own specific conditions.
End-of-life vehicles
I would also thank Mrs Palacio most warmly for her major contribution as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
The gulfs which are opening up everywhere are the main problem for our era.
We have asked for a Public Prosecutor' s Office and criminal law, but we also need administrative law for the EU.
Most democratic parliaments in the free world reject it on principle unless there is overwhelming public interest, which clearly there is not in this case.
Effective competition pushes prices down and raises standards of living.
Here we are here again in this Parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster.
However, I believe that in the end we have reached a reasonable agreement, which, like all agreements, is perhaps not perfect, but which, I believe, allows us to push ahead with the projects with which we were dealing.
We should not find ourselves late in the day in the unfortunate position where the one or other institution creates an unnecessary fracture in institutional relationships.
Any future government must therefore be judged according to the values and principles it professes to in its manifesto, and not according to the prejudgements put about both by political adversaries and the international media.
What we know from the environmental side is what I have already mentioned, that there is now an environmental reconstruction plan, but when it comes to medical check-ups I do not have the information about that.
These are sound, first steps which illustrate that, if this Parliament so wishes, changes are not only possible but can also be translated into action quickly.
However, we must be sure to introduce certain conditions here.
It has been seen as a bureaucratic process to be done as quickly as possible in as little time as possible.
Madam President, as everyone has said, this is a very important day. It is the day of the first debate of European political life.
As Mr Barnier too pointed out, it is impossible for all the work previously done by external collaborators to be done now by the Commission' s staff.
There are a number of things that undermine consumer confidence - lack of information is one.
Therefore, Commissioner, we ask Mr Prodi to present us with a bold programme, and he will find that he has problems with those bodies who feel that their status quo is under threat, but not with this Parliament, which expects profound and daring changes.
A good dose of hypocrisy is needed to overlook our weakness today.
So let us vote for these amendments in order to preserve these gems of the automobile industry.
Our proposal to split the costs has a crucial advantage, namely that we won't be an immediate candidate for the Court of Justice when the directive is adopted.
Mr President, I simply wanted to pass on some news. There was a terrorist attack this morning in Madrid.
First Part
For example, the fact that the amount and level of state aid calculated on a per capita basis vary considerably from Member State to Member State reveals the need for surveys such as this.
Dependence on imported energy affects worst of all many Eastern European countries, whose economic structure is still suffering from the dependence created in the times of the Soviet Union on Russian energy.
Indeed, it should be possible for a third-country subject who has legal status in a Member State to be admitted to other Member States too.
Seeing the market share that small countries such as Denmark have been capable of acquiring in this field, because they were the first ones to develop that area, gives one food for thought, I feel, and I think that in the long term it will ultimately be necessary to actually increase the budgets for renewable energies.
It should be possible for changes to be made to companies and for the latter to be sold and wound up.
We thank Mr Seixas da Costa, but he can also write his letter to the three kings.
If, by chance, it were possible to agree to include the cultural dimension in what has been called the fifth negotiating box of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, then this could be suggested, both by Member States, and by the Members of the European Parliament taking part in the preparatory group.
In brief, I would like to say that we are entering the period when we are called upon to manage the programming for 2000-2006, which must be no routine period for the good reason that we have two major challenges to face.
I propose that we start the debate immediately.
What we have here is an ecological disaster.
In any case, we shall see what specific steps transpire when the time comes for practical action.
Mr President of the Commission, if we do not manage to create true solidarity between the rich and the poor regions, then this Union will be all the poorer and it will not meet with the approval of the people.
Madam President, I would like to comment on the request Mrs Stenzel has made to postpone the vote on the Community initiative EQUAL until tomorrow.
This goes against the fundamental principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the founding treaties of this Union.
I shall look into this matter with the College of Quaestors.
This would show respect for these peripheral areas which are rather concerned about enlargement to the east.
Nonetheless, the French delegation in our group was unable to accept the fact that the Commission and the federalist faction have diverted the INTERREG initiative from its original purpose in order to detract still further from the political role of the nations.
However, it seems that the Commission does not share this view, although it is the Commission which is obliged to present the Council and Parliament with a report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy over the last decade before the end of 2001, and it is on this basis that the Council will have to make the appropriate decisions with regard to its modification.
It is essential for OLAF to be monitored by a court.
I would like to comment on two things. Firstly, vintage cars and motorbikes.
I would like to remind you of one thing: it is dangerous to rethink the entire governance of the European Union from here.
Mr President, colleagues, a happy new year and millennium to you all.
In 1998 and 1999 Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan received technical assistance of EUR 75 million.
Note that this proposed tax, which seems to be producing strong emotions in some people, would be the lowest tax in the world and the lowest in the history of global taxation. Yet it would represent the recapture of the areas seized from democracy by the financial sphere.
This will cause practical problems in the future, and I hope that despite this it will be possible to implement INTERREG effectively.
Firstly, at the beginning of 1999, NATO, with the participation of most Member States of the European Union, flattened Kosovo with bombs in the name of freedom.
The rapid alert system for feed is something that we have identified as a gap in the legislation.
This aid must be aligned with the objectives of the Union, particularly economic and social cohesion, sustainable development and research.
There is a blatant discrepancy here!
Concerning Mr Evans' point regarding the implications for businesses, it is important that the cost-benefit analysis should be seriously conducted.
We have passed 10 000 laws and as many amendments, and the applicant States have had 26 000 documents sent to them which, as debated by the Polish parliament, fill 140 000 sides of paper.
Mr President, Mrs Theato' s report on the protection of the European Union' s financial interests proposes centralising criminal proceedings by initially creating a European Public Prosecutor.
There is nothing so closed as a closed mind.
I am especially grateful for all of this.
This is a useful measure and it is one which we all need.
A characteristic example is Greece, which as an Objective 1 country was included as a whole in the LEADER Community initiatives, and where the average annual reduction in employment in the farming sector reached approximately 2.3%, while between 1994 and 1999 farming incomes decreased by 15.2%.
The second challenge is that of enlargement which will, of course, have a considerable impact, both in budgetary and geographical terms.
These days, the complete dismantling of end-of-life vehicles is economically viable.
The coalition which is being created in one of the Member States is clearly an Austrian affair but undoubtedly has a European dimension too.
Without agriculture, the rural world will disappear.
The various groups, be they environmental organisations or groups concerned with employment, have the possibility of taking part in drafting the Commission directives.
It looked, as Mr Schulz once aptly said in committee, as if the Council understood the area of freedom, security and justice to mean an area in which the Council has free rein, security from Parliament and the right to do and order as it will.
This Parliament has also asked the Commission to give an initial outline of the external aid policy reforms on 31 March of this year.
We also need to recognise that people who live in glasshouses should not throw stones.
Mr President, I am very happy to be able to say this to the Portuguese Presidency because it has earned great respect in this Assembly.
Finally, we should make it quite plain to Malta that if it wants to become a Member of this Community then by the time it accedes it must apply a standard in respect of registration and flag state control which completely fulfils our requirements, for the environment is a communal entity and not something that we can divide up!
One or two years ago, Parliament adopted a report by Mrs Lööw which is extremely important in this context.
We are at last holding it and cannot let this opportunity slip through our fingers.
Mr President, for years, Parliament has called for specific and uniform protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests.
Unfortunately, the terrorist murderers are once again punishing Spanish society. I note your comments with particular keenness, as you may expect, given that I too am Spanish.
I believe that this will be difficult but, in any event, we should carry out a review of the registers of the European Union countries.
URBAN funds have been invested in one of the most deprived neighbourhoods in the UK, in Moss Side.
(Parliament rejected the request, with 164 votes for, 166 votes against and 7 abstentions)
